Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.





Flow in the Anointing





Copyright © 2016 Dag Heward-Mills





First published 2019 by Parchment House





Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills at:





Healing Jesus Campaign

Email: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

Website: www.daghewardmills.org

Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

Twitter: @EvangelistDag





EBOOK ISBN : 978-1-64329-221-2





All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Contents



CHAPTER 1: How to Flow with the Anointing

CHAPTER 2: How to Flow with the River

CHAPTER 3: How to Flow with the Oil

CHAPTER 4: Oil for Light

CHAPTER 5: How to Flow with the Breath of God

CHAPTER 6: How to Flow with the Wind of the Spirit

CHAPTER 7: How to Flow with the Waters of the Spirit

CHAPTER 8: How to Flow with the Dove

CHAPTER 9: How to Flow with Mantles and Garments





CHAPTER 1




How to Flow with the Anointing




Flowing in the anointing is operating in the anointing of the Holy Spirit. Flowing with the anointing is the art of feeling and sensing God.

Flowing with the anointing is the art of working with the Holy Spirit as though He were one of the things He describes himself as; a river, water, a wind, oil, a blanket, a dove and so on.

There is a need for you to accept the Holy Spirit in the symbolic way He presents Himself in the Scriptures.

Without doing that, there is no way you can press on with God. Some people struggle with the concept of seeing God as a wind or as rain.

We are limited in our capacity to relate with the Holy Spirit. If we are to go deeper in God, we must relate with Him in the way He describes Himself. Some people say the only way to relate with the Holy Spirit is to relate with Him as a person.

When you learn to flow in the anointing you will use such words as going deeper, feeling more, swimming or even diving into Him. It is when you flow in the anointing that you can say things like. “It’s getting stronger” or “It’s getting deeper”.

When you learn to flow with the anointing, you would notice the departure of the Spirit like a dove and say things like “ The anointing has lifted.” When you do not understand the anointing, you would simply say, “The anointing is with us at all times according to His word.”

Yes, God is with us always according to His word but there are levels of God being with us. God is with us but we do err not knowing both the scriptures and the power of God.

Jesus answered and said unto them, ye do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God.

Matthew 22:29

Your language changes when you flow with the anointing. You begin to speak as though you are referring to a substance rather than only speaking about a person.

When you flow with the anointing you may say things like; “Breathe on me Holy Spirit.” You cannot breathe out a person or command the person of God to move to the left or to the right side of the congregation.

However, you can do that with the oil or with a blanket. That is what it means to flow in the anointing.

It is to accept that the Holy Spirit is also one of these scriptural tokens and totally give yourself to relating to the Holy Spirit in that way as well.

For instance you cannot say that God is getting stronger. God cannot get stronger. But a wind can blow harder and you can feel it more. The rain could pour more and you could feel a heavier or lighter downpour.

What is Flowing in the Anointing?

1.	Flowing in the anointing is the art of relating with the Holy Spirit as a real person.

Howbeit when HE, THE SPIRIT of truth, is come, HE WILL GUIDE you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that SHALL HE SPEAK: and HE WILL SHEW you things to come.

John 16:13

Flow with the Holy Spirit as a real person by recognizing the Holy Spirit as a familiar voice.

Flow with the Holy Spirit as a real person by recognizing the Holy Spirit as a presence. Flow with the Holy Spirit as a real person by recognizing the Holy Spirit as a guide. Flow with the Holy Spirit as a real person by recognizing the Holy Spirit as the source of your thoughts and ideas.

What can you do with a real person? You can talk to a real person! You can see a real person! You can listen to a real person! So flowing in the anointing is to talk, discussing, seeing and fellowshipping with a real person. Say “Good morning” to the Holy Spirit. Say “Good night to the Holy Spirit. Discuss things with the Holy Spirit. Chat with the Holy Spirit. Listen for advice from the Holy Spirit. Recognize thoughts, ideas and reminders from the Holy Spirit. That is how to flow with the Holy Spirit as a real person.

2.	Flowing in the anointing is the art of relating with the Holy Spirit as wind.

And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of A RUSHING MIGHTY WIND, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.

Acts 2:2

And when he had said this, HE BREATHED ON THEM, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost:

John 20:22

Flow with the Holy Spirit as a wind by recognizing the gentle pressures of the wind. You must recognize when the Holy Spirit is putting gentle pressure on your life. You must recognize when He is putting gentle pressure on you to do certain things.

Flow with the Holy Spirit as a wind by recognizing the sudden gusts of the wind. You must recognize the strong pressure of the wind of the Spirit. Flow with the Holy Spirit as a wind by recognizing the blowing of the wind pressure all over you. You must recognize when you are enveloped by the Holy Spirit.

To recognize the Holy Spirit as wind is also to recognize the Holy Spirit as breath. A breath of air is a breath of wind. Someone may breathe on you and say, “Receive the Holy Spirit.” Your faith in the breath may mean that you received the Holy Spirit.

3.	Flowing in the anointing is the art of relating with the Holy Spirit as though He were a dove.

And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God DESCENDING LIKE A DOVE, and lighting upon him:

Matthew 3:16

Flow with the Holy Spirit as a dove by recognizing the gentleness of the workings of the Holy Spirit. The dove is a gentle bird. Flow with the Holy Spirit as a dove by recognizing the Holy Spirit as someone who is easily pushed off and driven away.

What must you do with a dove? You must be careful around a dove so it doesn’t fly away. You must be gentle with a dove so it is not disturbed by you or driven away from you. Flowing with the anointing is to be careful, gentle and tender as though you were around a real and literal dove.

4.	Flowing in the anointing is the art of relating with the Holy Spirit as though He were a mantle.

He took up also THE MANTLE OF ELIJAH that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the bank of Jordan; And HE TOOK THE MANTLE of Elijah that fell from him, and smote the waters, and said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? and when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither: and Elisha went over.

2 Kings 2:13-14

Flow with the Holy Spirit as a mantle by recognizing the warmth He brings to you. Flow with the Holy Spirit as a mantle by recognizing something that makes you comfortable, warm and at ease. In the ministry, you can minister in a warm and comfortable atmosphere. Once you move outside the anointing, it is no longer warm and comfortable.

Outside the anointing is uncomfortable! It is cold! It is silent! It is difficult! It is scary to be outside your anointing. Flow with the Holy Spirit as a mantle by recognizing what fits you perfectly. You can wrap yourself with a well-fitting mantle. Flow with what fits you perfectly.

Always stay in the comfortable zones of your gift. If you are called to sing, stay with the singing. You may not do well when you start ministering healing. If you are called to preach, you may not be as comfortable playing the bass guitar or giving a special dance to the Lord. Indeed, you may be far more comfortable preaching for three hours than singing a song for five minutes.

5.	Flowing in the anointing is the art of relating with the Holy Spirit as though He were oil.

But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be ANOINTED WITH FRESH OIL.

Psalms 92:10

The oil makes the machine turn with ease. Flow with the Holy Spirit as oil by recognizing what makes everything easier for you. Flow with the Holy Spirit as oil by recognizing what makes things tastier. Oil always makes things tastier. Bread without butter is not the same as bread with butter. It is the oil that makes the bread nicer. Flow with the Holy Spirit as oil by recognizing what makes things smoother.

The Holy Spirit ensures that the bumpy edges of ministry are smoothened. Receive a smooth, flowing ministry by the power of the Holy Spirit. Allow the Holy Spirit to make things easier and smoother for you in the ministry.

6.	Flowing in the anointing is the art of relating with the Holy Spirit as though He were water.

For I WILL POUR WATER upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground: I WILL POUR MY SPIRIT upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring:

Isaiah 44:3

Flow with the Holy Spirit as water by recognizing your thirst for God. Your thirst for God is actually your thirst for the Holy Spirit. Just as you thirst in the natural for water, you can thirst for God. Flow with the Holy Spirit as water by recognizing your longings. Your longings for God are actually your longings for the Holy Spirit. Flow with the Holy Spirit as water by recognizing the yearnings that you have. Your yearnings for God are actually your yearnings for the Holy Spirit.

Just as you yearn in the natural for water, you can yearn after God. What can you do with the water? You can drink water. You can allow yourself “to drink in God”. You can recognize thirst and follow your thirsty feelings for the Spirit. You can let the thirst guide you to the rivers of living waters. So, flowing with the anointing is to allow your thirsty feelings to lead you to where God is practically.

7.	Flowing in the anointing is the art of relating with the Holy Spirit as though He were rain.

Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the Lord: his going forth is prepared as the morning; and HE SHALL COME UNTO US AS THE RAIN, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.

Hosea 6:3

Flow with the Holy Spirit as rain by recognizing that the Holy Spirit comes as a blessing from heaven. Rain has always been recognized as a blessing that comes from heaven. When you are flowing with the rain of the Spirit, you are conscious of something that must come to you from above. Rain brings growth. Flow with the rain by recognizing that which brings growth into your life and ministry.

Flow with the Holy Spirit as rain by recognizing the Holy Spirit as something you can pray for. All through the Old Testament, people prayed for the blessing of rain. They recognized the rain as a blessing that came by God’s sovereign decision. Rain does not fall all the time. The rain of the Holy Spirit is something that comes in seasons just as rain comes in seasons. Flow with the Holy Spirit as rain by recognizing something that comes in seasons.

8.	Flowing in the anointing is the art of relating with the Holy Spirit as though He were a river.

He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow RIVERS OF LIVING WATER.

John 7:38

Flow with the Holy Spirit as a river by recognizing the gentle drifting waters that are carrying you in a particular direction. Recognize yourself drifting in particular directions. Flow with the Holy Spirit as a river by recognizing the strong currents of the river. The strong tendency to move in certain directions is caused by the movements of the strong currents of the river of the Holy Spirit.

Flow with the Holy Spirit as a river by jumping into it. You can jump into a river. You can walk into a river! You can dive into a river! You can swim in a river! You can allow yourself to relax in a river and flow with its currents. You can allow yourself to flow with the tide and allow yourself to be carried away with God’s will.

You can go deeper and deeper into the river until it engulfs you totally and absolutely. Operating in the anointing is to swim to the deepest part of the river and allow the current to take you away into the glory and bliss of its depths.





CHAPTER 2




How to Flow with the River




Afterward he brought me again unto the door of the house; and, behold, waters issued out from under the threshold of the house eastward: for the forefront of the house stood toward the east, and the waters came down from under from the right side of the house, at the south side of the altar.

Then brought he me out of the way of the gate northward, and led me about the way without unto the utter gate by the way that looketh eastward; and, behold, there ran out waters on the right side.

And when the man that had the line in his hand went forth eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through the waters; the waters were to the ankles.

Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through the waters; the waters were to the knees. Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through; the waters were to the loins.

Afterward he measured a thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass over: for the waters were risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed over.

Ezekiel 47:1-5

There is a lot to learn by studying the river of the Spirit. Human beings are not made to live in a river. Fish are made to operate in a river. When a human being operates in a river, he is doing something supernatural. Operating in the river, therefore, speaks of operating in the supernatural.

1.	You can walk in the river of anointing at ankle level.

And when the man that had the line in his hand went forth eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through the waters; THE WATERS WERE TO THE ANKLES.

Ezekiel 47:3

Operating at the ankle level means you have barely entered the supernatural. Ninety-nine per cent of your life is outside the supernatural.

When you are at the ankle level of the river, you may have a flash of the supernatural but you quickly become natural again. Most of your body is outside the river. This means that most of your life is still outside the supernatural. It is only up to your ankles that are experiencing the supernatural.

At the ankle level, you are just a little wet. Anyone who experiences the river at ankle level can quickly go back to the land and operate in the natural again. People who are at ankle level are mostly in the natural. They experience very brief glimpses of deep spiritual activity.

2.	You can walk in the river of anointing at knee level.

Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through the waters; THE WATERS WERE TO THE KNEES. Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through; the waters were to the loins.

Ezekiel 47:4

Operating at the knee level means you have gone a little deeper into the supernatural but seventy-five per cent of your life is still outside the supernatural realm. When you are a minister at the knee level of the river, seventy-five percent of your ministry is in the natural. You may operate mostly in the logical, the natural and the ordinary.

At this level, you will lack the supernatural river of the Holy Spirit in most areas of your life and ministry. The Holy Spirit could have been involved in your administration, your finances, your church services, your business, your teaching, your counselling, your planning and even your thinking. But when you are at knee level, most of your activities are outside the anointing.

Perhaps, at this level, you operate in the anointing only when you are laying hands on people. Perhaps you do supernatural things for only twenty-five per cent of your ministry. Why should seventy-five per cent of your life and ministry be guided by a natural way of thinking? Go deeper! Allow more of your life’s activities to be immersed in the spirit. Allow more of your life to have a supernatural element.

3.	You can walk in the river of anointing at the loin level.

… Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through the waters; the waters were to the knees. Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through; THE WATERS WERE TO THE LOINS.

Ezekiel 47:4

When you stand in the river up to the loin level, half of your body is above the water. Operating at the loin level means you have gone even further into the supernatural but fifty per cent of your life is still outside the supernatural realm.

When you are a minister at the loin level of the river, half of your ministry is still in the natural. You still operate largely in the logical, the natural and the ordinary. It means that half of your life is influenced by the Spirit but the other half is influenced by logic and other human factors.

You can go deeper and immerse yourself completely in the Spirit. All parts of your ministry can be immersed in the Spirit! You do not have to remain at the level where only half of what you do is supernatural.

4.	You can go into the river of anointing at swimming level.

Afterward he measured a thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass over: for the waters were risen, WATERS TO SWIM IN, a river that could not be passed over.

Ezekiel 47:5

Human beings are created to live and work on the land. When a human being begins to operate in the water, he is doing something super-normal and supernatural. The swimming level is therefore the supernatural level in ministry.

The level of the anointing must increase from ankle level, to knee level, to loin level and then to the swimming level. It is only at the swimming level that the waters of the river begin to have a fantastic effect on you. Lower levels of the anointing may just make you wet and uncomfortable. At the swimming level, everything about you is enveloped in the supernatural. Your teaching, your preaching, your business, your decisions, your meetings, your singing, your music, your churches are all enveloped in the supernatural. At this level, the supernatural is no longer reserved for church services. You will notice that Jesus Christ operated at this level.

Jesus Christ did not wait to get to a church service before He healed the sick. Jesus Christ performed supernatural healings everywhere. He performed supernatural miracles in people’s homes and even on the roadside. He would perform fantastic miracles whilst on a boat, in the middle of the night or in the daytime.

Jesus was swimming in the anointing and the supernatural. He was operating in the highest form of the anointing. Everything about Him was anointed. His thoughts, His actions, His relaxed times at home or in a boat with His disciples were all supernatural times. That is the highest level of anointing. Jesus did not sing worship songs before performing miracles. Before the song, after the song and during the song, Jesus was anointed and supernatural.

5.	Flowing in the river will cause you to see many trees.

And he said unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen this? Then he brought me, and caused me to return to the brink of the river. Now when I had returned, behold, AT THE BANK OF THE RIVER WERE VERY MANY TREES on the one side and on the other.

Ezekiel 47:6-7

As you go deeper into the river of the anointing, you will see great and mighty things growing out of the ground. Many trees will grow out of the bank of the mighty river. These trees are the souls that are raised up through your ministry. These trees are pastors who are brought forth. These trees are evangelists and prophets. These trees are the servants of God who rise up by the side of the anointing. Because you are not flowing in the river you may not see many people raised up beside you. The lack of sons, daughters and servants of God is a sign that you are nowhere near the depths of the river.

6.	Flowing with the river of God will make you experience freshness. When the anointing is flowing like a river, it brings freshness to the ministry.

Then he said to me, “These waters go out toward the eastern region and go down into the Arabah; then they go toward the sea, being made to flow into the sea, and THE WATERS OF THE SEA BECOME FRESH.

Ezekiel 47:8 (NASB)

As the river of the Holy Spirit flows in your life you will experience the wonderful freshness. Rivers contain fresh water and rivers bring freshness to every dry place. Even the sea becomes fresh when the river is flowing into it. “Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord” (Acts 3:19).

Many churches are stale. They live off old glories. They only sing old hymns, old songs and do the old things. Indeed, because the Spirit is no longer there, hymns and songs that were once alive have become dead. The sermons are not fresh and the leadership of the church lacks life and freshness.

You may preach an ancient message or sing an old hymn with a freshness that will bring a revival into thousands of hearts. It is the absence of the river that kills these ancient messages and the timeless hymns.

The Bible will never change and the message from the Bible cannot be renewed. We cannot change the ancient landmarks but we can walk in the river of the Spirit and experience freshness from God.

7.	Flowing with the river of God will make you experience healing. When the anointing of the river flows, it brings healing. When the anointing is at the river level, it brings healing to everything that needs healing.

Then said he unto me, These waters issue out toward the east country, and go down into the desert, and go into the sea: which being brought forth into the sea, THE WATERS SHALL BE HEALED.

Ezekiel 47:8

Healing is a sign that you are swimming in the river. When you swim in the river of God, you will experience healing in your ministry. When you are not swimming in the river, there may be some good teachings, some good preaching and some nice logical presentations of truths. However, when you start swimming in the river, you will see healings. To be healed of cancer is a completely supernatural experience. To recover from incurable diseases is to experience completely supernatural miracles. When you swim in the river, you will see the miracle power of God.

8.	Flowing with the river of God will make you experience life.

And it shall come to pass, that every thing that liveth, which moveth, WHITHERSOEVER THE RIVERS SHALL COME, SHALL LIVE: and there shall be a very great multitude of fish, because these waters shall come thither: for they shall be healed; and every thing shall live whither the river cometh.

Ezekiel 47:9

The river of the Holy Spirit brings life. Life is the greatest sign of the presence of the Holy Spirit. All the scriptures, all the songs, all the hymns, all the rituals, all the formalities, all the uniforms, all the presentations, all the dramas, all the dances come alive when the Holy Spirit is present.

9.	Flowing with the river of God will make you experience fruitfulness and prosperity. The river brings a multitude of fish and abundant prosperity to the ministry. Through the river of God, a great multitude of souls come into the church.

And it shall come to pass, that every thing that liveth, which moveth, whithersoever the rivers shall come, shall live: and THERE SHALL BE A VERY GREAT MULTITUDE OF FISH, because these waters shall come thither: for they shall be healed; and every thing shall live whither the river cometh.

Ezekiel 47:9

10.	Flowing with the river of God will bring a lot of work.

According to the prophecy below, all the fishermen will have something to do. This great multitude of fish speaks of a multitude of souls. There will be a great harvest of souls into the church of God. Many will be saved and delivered from the clutches of the devil.

The river brings great opportunities to the ministry. There will be an abundance of work in the ministry. There will be an abundance of secular jobs because of the power of the Holy Spirit. There will be jobs and prosperity for all church members because of the power of the Holy Spirit.

And it shall come to pass, that THE FISHERS SHALL STAND UPON IT from Engedi even unto Eneglaim; they shall be a place to spread forth nets; their fish shall be according to their kinds, as the fish of the great sea, exceeding many.

Ezekiel 47:10





CHAPTER 3




How to Flow with the Oil




1.	The anointing oil teaches us that you are marked out from others by the anointing.

And he that is the high priest among his brethren, UPON WHOSE HEAD THE ANOINTING OIL WAS POURED, AND THAT IS CONSECRATED to put on the garments, shall not uncover his head, nor rend his clothes;

Leviticus 21:10

The anointing oil is to mark you out. When you are anointed with oil, your head looks oily and your clothes also look oiled. It is easy to make you out. There is a big difference between someone who has been anointed with oil and someone who has not. An oiled person stands out. Everyone sees the oil.

Accept that the anointing has marked you out. This anointing is what separates you from others. It is what makes you different.

Those who do not have oil on them are not any different from the others. They do not have anything that distinguishes them. When there is oil on your head, you need to get home to wash it off. You need to be taken away from the crowds and have the oil washed off. Those who do not have any oil on their heads do not need to be separated from the crowd.

2.	The anointing oil teaches us that God’s power should be mixed with every word you speak.

And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow them, to minister unto me in the priest’s office: Take one young bullock, and two rams without blemish, and unleavened bread, and CAKES UNLEAVENED TEMPERED WITH OIL, AND WAFERS UNLEAVENED ANOINTED WITH OIL: of wheaten flour shalt thou make them.

Exodus 29:1-2

And one loaf of bread, and ONE CAKE OF OILED BREAD, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened bread that is before the Lord:

Exodus 29:23

All the words you speak are supposed to be mixed with oil. You will notice the phrase “tempered with oil”. To be tempered with oil means to be mixed with oil. The preaching of the word of God must always be anointed by God. One of the main purposes of the anointing is for preaching. Jesus said, “The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to preach…” (Luke 4:18-19 KJV). The word “preach” appears three times in that passage. You are anointed to preach deliverance! You are anointed to preach the gospel! You are anointed to preach the acceptable year of the Lord!

The anointing is primarily intended to make your preaching powerful.

Whenever food is mixed with oil it always tastes nicer. You will notice the expression, “oiled bread”. You are expected to serve oiled bread, and not just bread. Your sermons, your teachings and your messages must be oiled.

The scripture also speaks of having the wafers anointed with oil. A wafer is light flat bread. Even the small discussions must be anointed. Your small meetings, your small groups teachings and Bible studies must all be oiled and anointed.

Once oil is mixed with the food, you will discover how tasty it becomes. Boiled rice is not easy to eat on its own but fried rice can be eaten on its own because it is much more tasty. Fried plantain is much nicer than boiled plantain. Fried potato chips are nicer than boiled potatoes and easier to eat on their own. Fried eggs are different from boiled eggs. You can eat fried fish on its own, but boiled fish is a different experience.

Indeed, food tempered with oil is a much nicer experience. It is important for ministers of the gospel to be anointed and to have their cakes, bread and wafers oiled and anointed.

It is when you are not anointed, that your messages are not pleasant. It is when you are not anointed that your messages are not well received. When you are anointed, even your rebukes and reproofs are received joyfully and gladly.

3.	The anointing oil teaches us that many compounds, elements and components make up the anointing.

Moreover the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, take thou also unto thee principal spices, of pure myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty shekels, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels, And of cassia five hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of oil olive an hin: And THOU SHALT MAKE IT AN OIL OF HOLY OINTMENT, an ointment compound after the art of the apothecary: IT SHALL BE AN HOLY ANOINTING OIL.

Exodus 30:22-25

The anointing oil was made up of many different elements. Each of those elements was unique and had a different effect. Imagine a paste made out of red pepper, black pepper, ginger, garlic, salt, vinegar, onions, sardines and coconut oil. Each of these elements would contribute something different to the paste. Each of these ingredients on their own would taste different. Sardines would have a strong smell. Coconut oil would have a unique taste and smell. Pepper, garlic and ginger would spice up the paste. That is how the anointing oil is!

Learn about the Holy Spirit by learning about the anointing oil! There are many different parts to the anointing in your life. The different components are mixed in such a way that you cannot really tell what is in it. As the years go by, you will discover what gifts you have. As the years go by, you will realise that the salty part of your ministry is caused by the salt in the anointing paste. As the years go by, God will show you the things that are part of your calling. You will see signs of it. You will taste it and you will walk in it.

4.	The anointing oil is to mark out a church and give it certain characteristics.

And thou shalt make it an OIL OF HOLY OINTMENT, an ointment compound after the art of the apothecary: it shall be an holy anointing oil. And thou shalt ANOINT THE TABERNACLE OF THE CONGREGATION therewith, and the ark of the testimony

Exodus 30:25-26

The anointing oil is to be poured on the tabernacle of the congregation. When the oil was poured out, it was visible on the tent. Everyone who passed by would notice the oiled tabernacle. The anointing marked out the church.

It is the anointing that defines how your church will turn out. There is an anointing that creates a community church. There is an anointing that creates a city church. There is an anointing that creates a national church and there is an anointing that creates a global church.

There is an anointing that creates a church with a healing ministry. There is an anointing that creates a church with a strong teaching ministry. There are churches that are built on the preaching anointing. All these different oils create different kinds of ministries. The oil was to be poured on the tabernacle to mark it out and give it special characteristics.

5.	The anointing oil is the reason for the offerings.

And the Lord spake unto Aaron, Behold, I ALSO HAVE GIVEN THEE THE CHARGE OF MINE HEAVE OFFERINGS of all the hallowed things of the children of Israel; UNTO THEE HAVE I GIVEN THEM BY REASON OF THE ANOINTING, and to thy sons, by an ordinance for ever.

This shall be thine of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: every oblation of theirs, every meat offering of theirs, and every sin offering of theirs, and every trespass offering of theirs, which they shall render unto me, shall be most holy for thee and for thy sons.

Numbers 18:8-9

Whatever offerings or income we have is because of the anointing. The heave offerings are given to the priests because of the anointing. The anointing on your life is what causes offerings to be given to you. Usually, the greater the anointing, the greater the support for the ministry. The Lord caused offerings to be given to the anointed. “I have given you the charge of the heave offerings by reason of the anointing.”





CHAPTER 4




Oil for Light




	The anointing oil gives the light that you need for direction in your life.

OIL FOR THE LIGHT, spices for anointing oil, and for sweet incense,

Exodus 25:6

And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee PURE OIL OLIVE BEATEN FOR THE LIGHT, TO CAUSE THE LAMP TO BURN ALWAYS.

Exodus 27:20

The oil was intended to give light. The light illuminated the dark tent so that the priest could see his way around. The Holy Place was a dark room completely cut off from the outside light.

Without the light from the oil, there would be no way to see what to do and where to go. Without the light of the Holy Spirit, there would be lots of spiritual disasters.

Without guidance from the Holy Spirit, you will fail in the call that God has given you. Without the light, you would stumble many times and give up.

Light for Joseph

Joseph, the husband of Mary, received light when he had a dream. The dream was from the Holy Spirit. Light came into his life and he knew what to do. Light is what the oil brings. Guidance! Direction! Supernatural moves! Divine escapes! Joseph is a good example of someone who received “oil for light”. The Holy Spirit moved and Joseph knew what to do. Joseph received oil for light. Let us see how Joseph cooperated with the Holy Spirit and received the light of direction for his life.

Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us. THEN JOSEPH BEING RAISED FROM SLEEP DID AS THE ANGEL OF THE LORD HAD BIDDEN HIM, AND TOOK UNTO HIM HIS WIFE: And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS.

Matthew 1:18-25

1.	Receive light for whom to marry.

Joseph received light for whom he should marry. Hosea also received light from God as to whom he should marry.

The beginning of the word of the Lord by Hosea. And the Lord said to Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredoms and children of whoredoms: for the land hath committed great whoredom, departing from the Lord. So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; which conceived, and bare him a son.

Hosea 1:2-3

2.	Receive light to accept what God has given you.

Joseph received light to accept the woman, Mary, as his wife. Joseph received the light of the key of acceptance. There is a light that can shine in your life to help you accept the cup God has given you. You may have a bad experience in marriage. That is a cup God may have given you to experience. Jesus received guidance from the Father to accept the cup that He had been given to drink.

Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high priest’s servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant’s name was Malchus. Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath: THE CUP WHICH MY FATHER HATH GIVEN ME, SHALL I NOT DRINK IT?

John 18:10-11

3.	Receive the light to forgive.

Joseph received the light of God. The light of God was special guidance he had received on what to do with a pregnant fiancée. The light was guiding him towards forgiveness. If he had not forgiven Mary for getting pregnant before they married, Joseph would not be as famous as he is today. Remember that the anointing oil gives a peculiar light so that you can walk in the will of God.

And when ye stand praying, FORGIVE, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.

Mark 11:25

4.	Receive the light to handle someone who seems to be lying and cheating.

Joseph received the light of God to continue living with Mary even though it looked like she had cheated on him. It would have been quite easy to believe that Mary was lying to Joseph and cheating on him. How could anyone be pregnant by a spirit? Indeed, Mary claimed to have been made pregnant by the Holy Spirit. Joseph received the light of God and the direction was clear; stay on with this woman who seems to be lying and cheating on you! Many marriages have unfair situations. Usually, one of the partners feels they are having a raw deal. This is exactly what happened between Joseph and Mary. Joseph felt something bad was happening to him by getting married to Mary. But God told him to carry on with it.

Perhaps that is a light God is giving you. Judas Iscariot was a liar and a cheat. But Jesus stayed with him to the end. Judas destroyed himself in spite of Jesus’ love.

5.	Receive the light to accept a non-ideal situation.

Joseph received the light of God and the direction was clear. Marry a “second-hand” woman! Accept a non-ideal situation! Marry a woman who has had a child from another source. The guidance of the Holy Spirit was clear: go for the second-hand one! Don’t go for a brand new option! Many people would not follow the guidance of the Holy Spirit.

Most of us would want to have a brand new thing. How many would accept a second-hand car when there is a brand new one available? But that was the guidance that Joseph received from God. Perhaps God is leading you to get something that is not ideal. Something that is not perfect! Something that is not exactly as you read about in the story books!

Make sure you follow the light that the anointing gives you. In the Book of Isaiah, we see how the Lord led the Israelites through the deserts. They thirsted not when he led them through the deserts. They were okay because God took care of them. How many of us would accept to walk through a desert instead of walking through a green field?

Thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I am the Lord thy God which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go. O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! Then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea: Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off nor destroyed from before me...

And THEY THIRSTED NOT WHEN HE LED THEM THROUGH THE DESERTS: HE CAUSED THE WATERS TO FLOW OUT OF THE ROCK FOR THEM: HE CLAVE THE ROCK ALSO, AND THE WATERS GUSHED OUT.

Isaiah 48:17-19, 21

6.	Receive the light to look foolish in the eyes of men.

Joseph received the guidance to marry Mary. Many would have thought he was a fool to marry Mary. How could you marry a woman who has most certainly cheated on you? The light of God will sometimes lead you down a path where you look foolish. But the foolishness of God is wiser than the wisdom of men!

Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty;

1 Corinthians 1:25-27

7.	Receive the light of what to do in each season.

Joseph received the light of God and did not have sexual relations with Mary until she had given birth to Jesus. This task was achieved by the power and direction of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit will give you guidance about your sexual life. The Holy Spirit will give you the light and the grace to wait for certain things to come in their season. It may seem dark. It may seem difficult.

Life on earth is made up of seasons. Nothing goes on forever. Everything has a season and every season has an end. Joseph’s season of difficulty would soon come to an end.

Your life before your marriage is one of the seasons of life. Within your marriage, there are also seasons. When your marriage is finally over, another season will begin.

Learn to wait for God!

And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; WE HAVE WAITED FOR HIM, AND HE WILL SAVE US: THIS IS THE LORD; WE HAVE WAITED FOR HIM, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.

Isaiah 25:9

8.	Receive the light to flow with the higher purposes of God.

Joseph’s life was not about his family, his prosperity, his home or his other children. Joseph’s life was dedicated to the purposes of God. Jesus was to be birthed into this world to save mankind from their sins. Joseph submitted his personal happiness and ambitions to God’s higher purposes.

This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations. For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? And his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

Isaiah 14:26-27

It is time to accept God’s great purposes. What is God’s purpose today? The salvation of the world! God wants to save the world. God wants to save mankind. The blood of Jesus has been shed for man. The great purpose of God is that His gospel should be preached throughout all the world. Unfortunately, your home, your children, your businesses, your job, your life and your cars are not important in the grand scheme of God’s purposes. God’s purposes are revealed in His word.

Joseph’s life had to fit into the purposes of God. Joseph received light to flow in the higher purposes of God. Dear friend, it is time that you believed that God’s will is what is going to happen. God’s word will come to pass whether you believe it or not.

NOW ALL THIS WAS DONE, THAT IT MIGHT BE FULFILLED WHICH WAS SPOKEN OF THE LORD BY THE PROPHET, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.

Matthew 1:22-23

The anointing oil in your life will bring guidance. The oil for light is the coming of the Holy Spirit and the giving of visions, dreams and revelations of the Word!

And it shall come to pass afterward, THAT I WILL POUR OUT MY SPIRIT UPON ALL FLESH; AND YOUR SONS AND YOUR DAUGHTERS SHALL PROPHESY, YOUR OLD MEN SHALL DREAM DREAMS, your young men shall see visions:

Joel 2:28

	The anointing oil gives the light that you need for direction in your life.

OIL FOR THE LIGHT, spices for anointing oil, and for sweet incense,

Exodus 25:6

And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee PURE OIL OLIVE BEATEN FOR THE LIGHT, TO CAUSE THE LAMP TO BURN ALWAYS.

Exodus 27:20

The oil was intended to give light. The light illuminated the dark tent so that the priest could see his way around. The Holy Place was a dark room completely cut off from the outside light.

Without the light from the oil, there would be no way to see what to do and where to go. Without the light of the Holy Spirit, there would be lots of spiritual disasters.

Without guidance from the Holy Spirit, you will fail in the call that God has given you. Without the light, you would stumble many times and give up.

Light for Joseph

Joseph, the husband of Mary, received light when he had a dream. The dream was from the Holy Spirit. Light came into his life and he knew what to do. Light is what the oil brings. Guidance! Direction! Supernatural moves! Divine escapes! Joseph is a good example of someone who received “oil for light”. The Holy Spirit moved and Joseph knew what to do. Joseph received oil for light. Let us see how Joseph cooperated with the Holy Spirit and received the light of direction for his life.

Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins. Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us. THEN JOSEPH BEING RAISED FROM SLEEP DID AS THE ANGEL OF THE LORD HAD BIDDEN HIM, AND TOOK UNTO HIM HIS WIFE: And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS.

Matthew 1:18-25

1.	Receive light for whom to marry.

Joseph received light for whom he should marry. Hosea also received light from God as to whom he should marry.

The beginning of the word of the Lord by Hosea. And the Lord said to Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredoms and children of whoredoms: for the land hath committed great whoredom, departing from the Lord. So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; which conceived, and bare him a son.

Hosea 1:2-3

2.	Receive light to accept what God has given you.

Joseph received light to accept the woman, Mary, as his wife. Joseph received the light of the key of acceptance. There is a light that can shine in your life to help you accept the cup God has given you. You may have a bad experience in marriage. That is a cup God may have given you to experience. Jesus received guidance from the Father to accept the cup that He had been given to drink.

Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high priest’s servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant’s name was Malchus. Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath: THE CUP WHICH MY FATHER HATH GIVEN ME, SHALL I NOT DRINK IT?

John 18:10-11

3.	Receive the light to forgive.

Joseph received the light of God. The light of God was special guidance he had received on what to do with a pregnant fiancée. The light was guiding him towards forgiveness. If he had not forgiven Mary for getting pregnant before they married, Joseph would not be as famous as he is today. Remember that the anointing oil gives a peculiar light so that you can walk in the will of God.

And when ye stand praying, FORGIVE, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.

Mark 11:25

4.	Receive the light to handle someone who seems to be lying and cheating.

Joseph received the light of God to continue living with Mary even though it looked like she had cheated on him. It would have been quite easy to believe that Mary was lying to Joseph and cheating on him. How could anyone be pregnant by a spirit? Indeed, Mary claimed to have been made pregnant by the Holy Spirit. Joseph received the light of God and the direction was clear; stay on with this woman who seems to be lying and cheating on you! Many marriages have unfair situations. Usually, one of the partners feels they are having a raw deal. This is exactly what happened between Joseph and Mary. Joseph felt something bad was happening to him by getting married to Mary. But God told him to carry on with it.

Perhaps that is a light God is giving you. Judas Iscariot was a liar and a cheat. But Jesus stayed with him to the end. Judas destroyed himself in spite of Jesus’ love.

5.	Receive the light to accept a non-ideal situation.

Joseph received the light of God and the direction was clear. Marry a “second-hand” woman! Accept a non-ideal situation! Marry a woman who has had a child from another source. The guidance of the Holy Spirit was clear: go for the second-hand one! Don’t go for a brand new option! Many people would not follow the guidance of the Holy Spirit.

Most of us would want to have a brand new thing. How many would accept a second-hand car when there is a brand new one available? But that was the guidance that Joseph received from God. Perhaps God is leading you to get something that is not ideal. Something that is not perfect! Something that is not exactly as you read about in the story books!

Make sure you follow the light that the anointing gives you. In the Book of Isaiah, we see how the Lord led the Israelites through the deserts. They thirsted not when he led them through the deserts. They were okay because God took care of them. How many of us would accept to walk through a desert instead of walking through a green field?

Thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I am the Lord thy God which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go. O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! Then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea: Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off nor destroyed from before me...

And THEY THIRSTED NOT WHEN HE LED THEM THROUGH THE DESERTS: HE CAUSED THE WATERS TO FLOW OUT OF THE ROCK FOR THEM: HE CLAVE THE ROCK ALSO, AND THE WATERS GUSHED OUT.

Isaiah 48:17-19, 21

6.	Receive the light to look foolish in the eyes of men.

Joseph received the guidance to marry Mary. Many would have thought he was a fool to marry Mary. How could you marry a woman who has most certainly cheated on you? The light of God will sometimes lead you down a path where you look foolish. But the foolishness of God is wiser than the wisdom of men!

Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men. For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called: But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty;

1 Corinthians 1:25-27

7.	Receive the light of what to do in each season.

Joseph received the light of God and did not have sexual relations with Mary until she had given birth to Jesus. This task was achieved by the power and direction of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit will give you guidance about your sexual life. The Holy Spirit will give you the light and the grace to wait for certain things to come in their season. It may seem dark. It may seem difficult.

Life on earth is made up of seasons. Nothing goes on forever. Everything has a season and every season has an end. Joseph’s season of difficulty would soon come to an end.

Your life before your marriage is one of the seasons of life. Within your marriage, there are also seasons. When your marriage is finally over, another season will begin.

Learn to wait for God!

And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; WE HAVE WAITED FOR HIM, AND HE WILL SAVE US: THIS IS THE LORD; WE HAVE WAITED FOR HIM, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.

Isaiah 25:9

8.	Receive the light to flow with the higher purposes of God.

Joseph’s life was not about his family, his prosperity, his home or his other children. Joseph’s life was dedicated to the purposes of God. Jesus was to be birthed into this world to save mankind from their sins. Joseph submitted his personal happiness and ambitions to God’s higher purposes.

This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations. For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? And his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

Isaiah 14:26-27

It is time to accept God’s great purposes. What is God’s purpose today? The salvation of the world! God wants to save the world. God wants to save mankind. The blood of Jesus has been shed for man. The great purpose of God is that His gospel should be preached throughout all the world. Unfortunately, your home, your children, your businesses, your job, your life and your cars are not important in the grand scheme of God’s purposes. God’s purposes are revealed in His word.

Joseph’s life had to fit into the purposes of God. Joseph received light to flow in the higher purposes of God. Dear friend, it is time that you believed that God’s will is what is going to happen. God’s word will come to pass whether you believe it or not.

NOW ALL THIS WAS DONE, THAT IT MIGHT BE FULFILLED WHICH WAS SPOKEN OF THE LORD BY THE PROPHET, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.

Matthew 1:22-23





CHAPTER 5




How to Flow with the Breath of God




The Spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life.

Job 33:4

The wind of God and the breath of God are the greatest life-giving powers on earth. When we speak of the breath of God we speak of something that gives life.

When God breathed into Adam, he received the life of God.

1.	God the Father brought life into the earth by the breath of God. Flowing with the breath of God is flowing with the life of God.

But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground. And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and BREATHED INTO HIS NOSTRILS THE BREATH OF LIFE; AND MAN BECAME A LIVING SOUL.

Genesis 2:6-7

All other planets in the solar system lack one thing. They lack life! There is no breath of God on Mars, on Venus, on Jupiter or on Mercury. All the other planets have mountains, hills and vast expanses of rock and sand. Mars has a mountain far taller than Mount Everest. Venus has rain, though it is sulphuric acid rain. Venus has clouds just like the earth. Titan, one of the moons of Saturn, has seas and lakes of liquid ethane and methane. However, none of these places have any life.

Life comes from God. It is only when the breath of God came into the dust of the earth that human life was created. When God breathed into the dust, the dust became a living soul. When you die, you return to dust and become dust! Within a few years your body is not distinguishable from the earth’s dust. No one can find you nor your bones any longer. It is the breath of God that gives you life.

2.	Jesus believed in the breath of God.

And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost:

John 20:22

Flow with the breath of God by believing that when breath comes into you, life comes into you. Jesus believed in the wind of the Spirit and breathed on His disciples. When Jesus breathed on the disciples, they received the Holy Spirit. I believe that the disciples received life in that moment.

Breathing the breath of God is a way of ministering the Holy Spirit to people. It is a way of ministering life to people.

3.	Ezekiel believed in the breath of God.

God commanded Ezekiel to prophesy to the wind. When he prophesied to the wind, breath entered into bones and they came alive. When the breath of the Holy Spirit comes into you, life will come into you.

So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to his bone. And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up upon them, and the skin covered them above: but there was no breath in them. THEN SAID HE UNTO ME, PROPHESY UNTO THE WIND, PROPHESY, SON OF MAN, AND SAY TO THE WIND, THUS SAITH THE LORD GOD; COME FROM THE FOUR WINDS, O BREATH, AND BREATHE UPON THESE SLAIN, THAT THEY MAY LIVE. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great army.

Ezekiel 37:7-10

Seven Things That Happen When the Breath of God comes into You

1.	Flow with the breath of God and begin to move. You receive life when the breath of God comes into you: Anything that has life has movement.

And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly THE MOVING CREATURE THAT HATH LIFE, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.

Genesis 1:20

If the breath of the Holy Spirit is working in you, you will move according to His plan. Movement is the greatest evidence of life. When someone lies still without movement, everyone fears that he is dead. When the breath of the Holy Spirit is in you keep moving in the will of God. You may move into the evangelistic ministry, you may move into the prophetic ministry. You may move into other realms of ministry. You may even change location. Do not be worried when you are transferred. It is a sign of life that you keep moving. Dead things do not move!

2.	Flow with the breath of God and begin to communicate. You receive life when the breath of God comes into you: Life has communication.

Let every thing that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord.

Psalms 150:6

When the breath of God is in you, you will praise the Lord. When the breath of God is in you, you will speak and you will communicate. Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Whatever has life must communicate! When the anointing of the spirit of God is upon you, you will communicate. Dead people do not speak. Pastors who do not communicate do not have the Holy Spirit in them.

There are many people who do not communicate as they ought to. It is the number one sign that they lack the spirit. When my father died, the thing I noticed most was the fact that he did not speak any more. His voice was a strong guiding factor in everything I did. The absence of his voice was quite remarkable. Even at his funeral I thought he would give instructions and tell everyone what to do! But somehow, he lay there silently and never said a word again up till now.

3.	Flow with the breath of God and begin to see, to hear and to feel. You receive life when the breath of God comes into you: Life has feelings, life has sight and life makes sounds.

One of the things that will shock you about dead bodies is the way they do not respond to a knife cutting them. During post-mortem examination, they do not flinch or show any feelings at all. It is amazing to see how a person accepts to live in a fridge for two weeks without complaining. This is only because the person is dead. He is without feeling, without sight and without sound. He does not mind the silence in the fridge or the cold of the fridge. When you are flowing with the wind of the Spirit you will enjoy the work of God. You will have feelings. You will enjoy what you do. You will like it. You will love it. When the wind of the Spirit is flowing, you will see visions and you will hear the voice of the Lord.

Indeed, many people complain that they are having sex with a virtual dead body when their partners do not make any sounds or show any feelings. When people do not show any interest in the sexual act, you cannot blame their partners for thinking they are interacting with a dead body. The lack of feelings always speaks of death.

Everything that has life has feelings. Everything that has life can see and can hear. This is why the inability to see or to hear is a severe handicap that demands great compassion from fellow human beings. Any creature that can neither see nor hear nor feel is virtually experiencing death. When the wind of the Holy Spirit blows on you, you start to see, you start to hear and you start to feel.

4.	Flow with the breath of God and begin activities. You receive life when the breath of God comes into you: Life has activity.

When the wind of the Spirit is in you, there will be activity. Churches that have activity prove that the Spirit of God is moving in them. Where there are no activities, there is no Spirit. When a person is dead, he does not get involved in parties, he does not go to school, he does not go to work and he does not go to church. There is no more activity for him. A sign of the presence of the breath of the Spirit is lots of activity.

And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, and every man: All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.

Genesis 7:21-22

6.	Flow with the breath of God and begin to grow. You receive life when the breath of God comes into you: Life has growth.

Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.

Psalms 104:29

Wherever there is life there is growth. All creatures, once they are dead, stop growing. A church which does not grow does not have the mighty spirit of God moving in their midst. A ministry that does not grow is not alive. If the mighty breath of God is there, there will be life and there will be growth. Is your church growing? Are the numbers increasing? Is the Spirit there? Is there life there?

7.	Flow with the breath of God and begin to reproduce. You receive life when the breath of God comes into you: Life has reproduction.

And God said, Let the earth bring forth the LIVING CREATURE AFTER HIS KIND, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so.

Genesis 1:24

When there is life, there is reproduction. All living creatures reproduce after their own kind. Once there is life there is reproduction. A church that is alive reproduces other churches. A minister who has the breath of God reproduces other ministers after his own kind. Reproduction is always a sign of the breath of God. It is time to reproduce pastors! It is time to reproduce bishops! It is time to reproduce churches. It is time to reproduce choirs. It is time to show that the breath of God is in you!





CHAPTER 6




How to Flow with the Wind of the Spirit




And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.

Acts 2:2-4

The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.

John 3:8

1.	Flow with the mighty rushing wind. The Holy Spirit is the mighty rushing wind. In the scripture above, we see the characteristics of the mighty rushing wind of the Spirit.

1.	The wind of the Spirit is mysterious. Thou “canst not tell whence it cometh!”

2.	The wind of the Spirit is powerful in movement. It “bloweth”!

3.	The wind of the Spirit is independent. It “bloweth where it listeth”!

4.	The wind of the Spirit is invisible. No one can see the wind!

5.	The wind of the Spirit is varied in direction. No one can tell “whither it goeth”!

6.	The wind of the Spirit makes a sound that tells you where He is going. “Thou hearest the sound thereof”!

7.	The wind of the Spirit brings on the fire of God. Wind stirs up fire and when the Holy Ghost fell there were cloven tongues of fire!

What the Wind of the Spirit Can Do

Whatever winds can do is what the Holy Spirit can do. If you study the effect of winds, you will see the great things that are accomplished by winds. The Bible makes mention of the east wind and the west wind. By understanding the effect of winds, you can understand what it is like if the wind of the Holy Spirit blows on you. Expect each and every one of these powerful effects of the wind of the Spirit.

1.	Notice the wind of the Spirit causing things to be wither. The wind of the Spirit can cause a withering of anything that displeases God.

And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good: And, behold, SEVEN EARS, WITHERED, THIN, AND BLASTED WITH THE EAST WIND, sprung up after them:

Genesis 41:22-23

The seven ears were withered and thin because of the east wind that blew on them. God’s enemies will become thin and will wither because of the work of the Spirit against them.

2.	Notice the wind of the Spirit driving away demonic powers. The wind of the Spirit can blow away demonic powers.

Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste; and he said, I have sinned against the Lord your God, and against you. Now therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and intreat the Lord your God, that he may take away from me this death only. And he went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the Lord. AND THE LORD TURNED A MIGHTY STRONG WEST WIND, WHICH TOOK AWAY THE LOCUSTS, and cast them into the Red sea; there remained not one locust in all the coasts of Egypt.

Exodus 10:16-19

Locusts speak of demonic powers. The wind of God blew away the locusts which had devoured the land of Egypt. Whatever has eaten the harvest of souls in your ministry will be blown away by the mighty rushing wind of the Spirit. The wind of the Spirit in your life is going to blow away the demonic powers that have invaded your church.

3.	Notice the wind of the Spirit blowing away death. The wind of the Spirit can blow away the plague of death.

And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that was with him in the ark: and GOD MADE A WIND TO PASS OVER THE EARTH, AND THE WATERS ASSWAGED; The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained; And the waters returned from off the earth continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.

Genesis 8:1-3

Death covered the whole earth in the days of Noah. Every living thing died because of the waters. It took the wind of God to blow away the waters of death. Whatever represents death in your life is blown away by the Holy Spirit! The Holy Spirit is driving away death from your life and ministry.

4.	Notice the wind of the Spirit making a way for you. The wind of the Spirit can make a way for you.

In the days of Moses the children of Israel were trapped between the Red Sea and the Egyptians. There was no way for them. When the wind began to blow, God made a way through the waters of the Red Sea. God will make a way for you because of the wind of the Spirit. The wind of God will make a way for you when you seem to be trapped.

And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the Lord caused the sea to go back by A STRONG EAST WIND ALL THAT NIGHT, AND MADE THE SEA DRY LAND, and the waters were divided. And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground: and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left.

Exodus 14:21-22

And the Lord shall utterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptian sea; and with HIS MIGHTY WIND SHALL he shake his hand over the river, and shall smite it in the seven streams, and MAKE MEN GO OVER DRYSHOD. And there shall be an highway for the remnant of his people, which shall be left, from Assyria; like as it was to Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt.

Isaiah 11:15-16

5.	Notice the wind of the Spirit drying up evil things in your life. The wind of the Spirit can dry up the evil springs of the enemy.

The wind of the Holy Spirit will dry up the spring of the enemy. Some things need to be dealt with by drying up. Most of the evil sexual habits need to be dealt with by drying up. They are not things that can just stop. They are habits and tastes that have been developed over the years. Most of these habits and tastes are demonically empowered and enforced. The wind of the Spirit will dry them out and ease you out of all sexual perversions and deviations from normality.

Though he be fruitful among his brethren, an east wind shall come, THE WIND OF THE LORD SHALL COME UP FROM THE WILDERNESS, AND HIS SPRING SHALL BECOME DRY, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels.

Hosea 13:15

6.	Notice the wind of the Spirit destroying the enemy’s forces. The wind of the Spirit can utterly the destroy enemy’s forces.

Whatever is fighting you can be destroyed by the mighty Holy Spirit! The Holy Spirit is a wind and is a mighty rushing wind that can destroy enemies and empty their land. When God is displeased with the church, he can empty it by the mighty rushing wind of His Spirit. Many churches are empty because the Spirit of God has blown the members away. Mercy!

Thus saith the Lord; Behold, I will raise up against Babylon, and against them that dwell in the midst of them that rise up against me, A DESTROYING WIND; And will send unto Babylon fanners, that shall fan her, and SHALL EMPTY HER LAND: for in the day of trouble they shall be against her round about.

Jeremiah 51:1-2

Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the Lord chase them.

Psalms 35:5

7.	Notice the wind of the Spirit bringing in the supplies that you need. The wind of the Spirit can bring in our needs and supplies.

Through the wind of the Spirit, Moses was able to feed two million people. The power of God moved mightily and brought in all the supplies he needed to feed two million people everyday. This was a mighty miracle. Expect to receive mighty financial miracles of provision through the powerful rushing wind of the Spirit! Pray for the Holy Spirit! Pray for the manifestations of the Holy Spirit. Pray that the wind of the Holy Spirit will move!

And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel. And THERE WENT FORTH A WIND FROM THE LORD, AND BROUGHT QUAILS FROM THE SEA, and let them fall by the camp, as it were a day’s journey on this side, and as it were a day’s journey on the other side, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits high upon the face of the earth. And the people stood up all that day, and all that night, and all the next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp.

Numbers 11:30-32

8.	Notice the wind of the Spirit that comes with angels. The wind of the Spirit blows in the presence of angels. Wherever the Holy Spirit is, you find angels. In this amazing scripture, we see the cherubs hiding on the wings of the wind. As the Holy Spirit flows as a wind, the cherubs and other angels come along and minister to the saints. Many storms are not just natural occurrences. Many storms contain the movement of angels and other spirits.

In my distress I called upon the Lord, and cried to my God: and he did hear my voice out of his temple, and my cry did enter into his ears. Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of heaven moved and shook, because he was wroth. There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it. He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was under his feet. And HE RODE UPON A CHERUB, AND DID FLY: AND HE WAS SEEN UPON THE WINGS OF THE WIND.

2 Samuel 22:7-11





CHAPTER 7




How to Flow with the Waters of the Spirit




In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink.

He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of LIVING WATER. (But THIS SPAKE HE OF THE SPIRIT, which they that believe on him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given; because that Jesus was not yet glorified.)

John 7:37-39

1.	Flow with the waters of the Spirit and be washed! The Spirit is like water that washes you and cleanses you.

The soul which hath touched any such shall be unclean until even, and shall not eat of the holy things, UNLESS HE WASH HIS FLESH WITH WATER.

Leviticus 22:6

The Holy Spirit is called the Living Water. When you receive the Holy Spirit, you are washed and cleansed. The presence of the Holy Spirit has a cleansing effect. As you can see from the scripture below, water is used for washing and cleansing people. You can expect a cleansing and washing experience through the power of the Holy Spirit.

2.	Flow with the waters of the Spirit and be purified! The Spirit is like water that purifies you.

And the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day: and on the seventh day he shall purify himself, and wash his clothes, and BATHE HIMSELF IN WATER, AND SHALL BE CLEAN AT EVEN.

Numbers 19:19

You will be purified by the presence of the Holy Spirit. Jesus called the Holy Spirit living water. One of the things water does is to purify you. When the anointing of the Spirit is upon you, you stand in purity and are able to minister. Without the anointing of the Spirit, you stand in your filth and have nothing to offer. You cannot minister well with the background of your grievous sins. You need the purity that comes from the Spirit.

3.	Flow with the waters of the Spirit and be revived! The Spirit is like water that revives you.

For I WILL POUR WATER UPON HIM THAT IS THIRSTY, and floods upon the dry ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring: And THEY SHALL SPRING UP as among the grass, as willows by the water courses.

Isaiah 44:3-4

The presence of the Holy Spirit will revive you. You will always notice a sense of reviving when the Spirit is moving in your life. The Holy Spirit coming into your life is like water coming to you in a dry land. You will spring up in revival when the waters of the Holy Spirit come upon you. Revival comes from the Holy Spirit. All the deadness around you will go when the Holy Spirit comes. Start praying for the Holy Spirit and there will be a great revival. The Spirit revives! Water revives people that are nearly dead!

4.	Flow with the waters of the Spirit and be satisfied! The Spirit is like water that satisfies you.

They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; and thou shalt make them DRINK OF THE RIVER OF THY PLEASURES.

Psalms 36:8

Expect to be satisfied when the mighty Spirit of God comes upon you. The waters of the Holy Spirit give you a sense of satisfaction. When you are having your quiet time, you will feel satisfied when the Holy Spirit speaks to you. Pray for the move of the Spirit as you hear the word of God. Satisfaction always comes as the Spirit moves. Without the Holy Spirit, the same scriptures will put you to sleep!

5.	Flow with the waters of the Spirit and be refreshed! The Spirit is like water that refreshes you.

God, YOU ARE MY GOD; I eagerly seek You. I THIRST FOR YOU; my body faints for You in a land that is dry, desolate, and without water.

Psalms 63:1 (HCSB)

You must seek for the Holy Spirit. He will refresh you! When you have the Holy Spirit, you will be refreshed. Nothing can replace the refreshing that comes from the mighty Spirit of God. The Holy Spirit is God. You must thirst for Him. The power of the Holy Spirit is not something you can explain. It is something you have to experience. What a refreshing we experience when we come into the presence of the Spirit!

6.	Flow with the waters of the Spirit and grow! The Spirit is like water that makes you grow.

And the Lord shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and THOU SHALT BE LIKE A WATERED GARDEN, and like a spring of water, WHOSE WATERS FAIL NOT.

Isaiah 58:11

A watered garden is a garden where everything is growing. Everything blossoms in a watered garden. When the anointing is on you, you are like a watered garden. Things will grow and blossom because of the watering of the Holy Spirit. Your music will grow! Your preaching will grow! Your church will grow! Your ministry will grow! Your business will grow! Everything about you will grow nicely because of the waters that fail not. The Holy Spirit never fails to make things grow.





CHAPTER 8




How to Flow with the Dove





And John bare record, saying, I SAW THE SPIRIT DESCENDING FROM HEAVEN LIKE A DOVE, and it abode upon him. And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.

John 1:32-33

1.	Flow with the Holy Spirit like you would flow with a dove that is sensitive.

And HE SENT FORTH A RAVEN, WHICH WENT FORTH TO AND FRO, until the waters were dried up from off the earth. ALSO HE SENT FORTH A DOVE from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground; BUT THE DOVE FOUND NO REST FOR THE SOLE OF HER FOOT, AND SHE RETURNED UNTO HIM INTO THE ARK, for the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark. And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark; And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth. And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove; which returned not again unto him any more.

Genesis 8:7-12

You may always wonder who the Holy Spirit chooses to work with. You may wonder why He does not use you but rather chooses someone you disapprove of. The Spirit is like a dove and is sensitive and particular. The dove will not settle on just anyone. The dove chooses people carefully. You may not like His choice but He has His reasons for whom He chooses.

The dove is not like a raven. When Noah sent out the raven, it just went and settled on the dead bodies in the water. The raven was happy to enjoy the dead and decomposing bodies of the flood. But the dove was too sensitive for that. The mighty Holy Spirit is sensitive. He does not accept just anything. He is very particular about whom He chooses and whom He works with. Please do not use your standards or ideas for whom the Holy Spirit should work with. He is very sensitive and He will choose where to go, what to do.

2.	Flow with the Holy Spirit like you would flow with a dove that has a beautiful voice.

O MY DOVE, that art in the clefts of the rock, in the secret places of the stairs, let me see thy countenance, LET ME HEAR THY VOICE; FOR SWEET IS THY VOICE, and thy countenance is comely.

Song of Songs 2:14

Always remember that the voice of God is a beautiful voice. When you wait on God, expect to hear that beautiful voice of God. Seek to hear the voice of God.

The Spirit is like a dove and has a beautiful and lovely voice. When you get to know the voice of the Holy Spirit, you will settle for nothing less. It is the beautiful voice of God that changes your life. If you have ever heard the voice of God, you will long to hear it again. What is the point of waiting on God if you do not hear His voice?

3.	Flow with the Holy Spirit like you would flow with a dove that can fly away.

And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest. Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness. Selah.

Psalms 55:6-7

The Holy Spirit can leave at any time. He is very sensitive. If you are sensitive you will notice when His presence has lifted.

4.	Flow with the Holy Spirit like you would flow with a dove that has doves’ eyes.

Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; THOU HAST DOVES’ EYES.

Song of Songs 1:15

Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; THOU HAST DOVES’ EYES within thy locks: thy hair is as a flock of goats, that appear from mount Gilead.

Song of Songs 4:1

The Spirit is like a dove. Because of the shape of a dove’s head its eyes can only focus on one thing. The Holy Spirit has dove’s eyes that are deliberately focussed on one thing. The Holy Spirit is focussed on you. His love is focussed on the church. The Holy Spirit is focussed on the bride of Christ. God’s attention is on His people. He wants us to break forth into church planting and church growth.

5.	Flow with the Holy Spirit like you would flow with a dove that is very selective.

Who are these that fly as a cloud, AND AS THE DOVES TO THEIR WINDOWS?

Isaiah 60:8

The dove does not just go anywhere. It does not just land at every window. It chooses the safest window and the friendliest spot. Will the Holy Spirit come to your window? Are you friendly towards the Holy Spirit? Anointed people do not just go anywhere. You must be welcoming to the anointing.

Anointed people go where they are loved, honoured and respected. Non-anointed people go where there is money to be gotten. But the Holy Spirit goes where He is honoured.

The Holy Spirit does not go everywhere. If you do not believe in the Holy Spirit He will not come to you. If you make fun of spiritual things He will move away. Where you do not honour the anointing, it will not work!

6.	Flow with the Holy Spirit like you would flow with a dove that is sociable and loves company.

WHO ARE THESE THAT FLY AS A CLOUD, and as the doves to their windows?

Isaiah 60:8

The Spirit is like a dove. The Spirit flies as a cloud. The Spirit loves company in the same way that a dove loves company. The dove loves to be in the company of believers. He loves to be where two or three are gathered in His name. Wherever two or three are gathered, you can expect the mighty Spirit to be present. The Holy Spirit always flies as a cloud. The dove will be there in the midst of the cloud!

7.	Flow with the Holy Spirit like you would flow with a dove that is undefiled, holy and special.

MY DOVE, MY UNDEFILED IS BUT ONE; she is the only one of her mother, she is the choice one of her that bare her. The daughters saw her, and blessed her; yea, the queens and the concubines, and they praised her.

Song of Songs 6:9

The Holy Spirit is undefiled. The Holy Spirit is a holy spirit. The Holy Spirit is special. The Holy Spirit is not available to just anyone. He is available to those who walk in holiness and righteousness. Holiness is important if you want to experience the mighty Holy Spirit.

8.	Flow with the Holy Spirit like you would flow with a dove which can fly away.

And I said, OH THAT I HAD WINGS LIKE A DOVE! FOR THEN WOULD I FLY AWAY, and be at rest. Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness. Selah. I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.

Psalms 55:6-8

The Holy Spirit is like a dove with wings. A dove with wings will fly away whenever he wants to. The Holy Spirit is like a dove that must be free to go where He wants to. The dove wants the liberty to fly away when He wants to. The liberty to fly speaks of the liberty of the dove. It will not descend on anything that will keep it from flying freely. The Holy Spirit needs the liberty to speak and the liberty to guide His people.

Whoever prevents the dove from flying is taking away the liberty of the dove. The dove will escape from anyone who tries to trap him and prevent him from flying. Nothing must ever restrict the Holy Spirit in your life. The controls of your life must be left to the Holy Spirit. Do not allow your friends, your parents, your beloved, your wife or your husband to restrict the Holy Spirit in your life.

Remember that the dove has wings and must be able to fly everywhere freely! The Holy Spirit must be able to speak to you freely about anything. The Holy Spirit must be able to tell you anything. Is there anyone who has helped to set aside and silence the Holy Spirit in your life?





CHAPTER 9




How to Flow with Mantles and Garments




1.	The anointed garments of Old Testament priests

And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and OF THE ANOINTING OIL, AND SPRINKLE IT UPON AARON, AND UPON HIS GARMENTS, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons’ garments with him.

Exodus 29:21

And THE HOLY GARMENTS OF AARON SHALL BE HIS SONS’ AFTER HIM, TO BE ANOINTED THEREIN, and to be consecrated in them.

Exodus 29:29

The garments of the Old Testament priests were anointed with oil. This shows how the anointing can reside in the garments. If you can believe it, you will discover that the garments of anointed people are also anointed. You can flow with the anointing by believing that garments are also packed with God’s power.

2.	The precious ointment on the skirts of Aaron’s garments

Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity! It is like the PRECIOUS OINTMENT upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron’s beard: THAT WENT DOWN TO THE SKIRTS OF HIS GARMENTS; As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the Lord commanded the blessing, even life for evermore.

Psalms 133:1-3

The ointment was found in the skirts of Aaron’s garments. Once again, the priest seemed to carry a lot of power in his clothes. The effect of this ointment was like the effect of unity on a church. If you can receive it, the clothes of the anointed person contain the precious ointment.

3.	The anointed mantle of Elijah

So he departed thence, and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth: AND ELIJAH PASSED BY HIM, AND CAST HIS MANTLE UPON HIM. And he left the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and said, Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow thee. And he said unto him, go back again: for what have I done to thee? And he returned back from him, and took a yoke of oxen, and slew them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave unto the people, and they did eat. Then he arose, and went after Elijah, and ministered unto him.

1 Kings 19:19-21

If you believe that the anointing can be in a garment, you will understand why Elijah’s mantle was thrown on Elisha. Elijah threw his garment on Elisha because he wanted the anointing that was on him to come on Elisha. Men of the Spirit believe that the garments of the anointed contain power.

4.	The anointed hankerchiefs and aprons of apostle Paul

And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul: So that FROM HIS BODY WERE BROUGHT UNTO THE SICK HANDKERCHIEFS OR APRONS, and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out of them.

Acts 19:11-12

Paul’s aprons and handkerchiefs were loaded with God’s power. If you believe in the word of God, you will believe that a handkerchief that has been in contact with the anointed man of God can and does contain the power of God. You can pray over handkerchiefs and distribute them and many people will be healed.

5.	The anointed garments of Jesus

And a certain woman, which had an issue of blood twelve years, And had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse, When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and TOUCHED HIS GARMENT. FOR SHE SAID, IF I MAY TOUCH BUT HIS CLOTHES, I SHALL BE WHOLE. And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague. And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned him about in the press, and said, who touched my clothes?

Mark 5:25-30

Jesus’ garments were a source of healing. The healing of the woman with the issue of blood is a great example of the anointing being in garments and mantles. This sick woman knew the principle of the anointed garments. She tapped into that principle and received her healing. She did not bother to speak to Jesus. She did not bother to seek an interview with Jesus Christ. She did not ask Him to pray for her. She did not ask Him to pour oil on her head. She believed that the clothes of the anointed contained the power of God and she received that great power. You can tap into the anointing by tapping into the garments of the anointed. The woman with the issue of blood knew that she could tap into the anointing by touching the hem of Jesus’ garment. You can do that too if you flow with the anointing as a mantle.

In Conclusion

Flow with the anointing and be blessed! Whether it is as oil, whether it is as water, whether as a garment, whether as the wind or as a person, let us flow with the Holy Spirit!

God is real! We are human beings! We are nothing! Without God we can do nothing! Without God’s power we can do nothing! Let’s flow with the anointing!





