Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the

			King James Version of the Bible.

			Flow Prayer Book

			Copyright © 2022 Dag Heward-Mills

			Published by Parchment House 2022

			1st Printing 2022

			77Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills

			Healing Jesus Campaign

			Write to: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

			Website: www.daghewardmills.org

			Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

			Twitter: @EvangelistDag

			ISBN: 978-1-64330-900-2

			All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Table of Contents

CHAPTER 1 : Prayer Concerning Why You Were Created and Against Voids and Emptiness in Your Life (Prayers from Genesis 1); Prayer for the Holy Spirit & Prayer for the Nations

CHAPTER 2 : Prayer for Light & Prayer for the Blessing of Fruitfulness

CHAPTER 3 : Prayer for the Holy Spirit; Prayer for the Original Blessings of Fruitfulness & Prayer for the Nations

CHAPTER 4 : Prayer about Things You Must Never Do; Prayer to Become a Good Son & Prayer for the Nations

CHAPTER 5 : Prayer for the Holy Spirit; Prayer for Teaching Gifts & Prayer for the Nations

CHAPTER 6 : Prayer to Walk With God and to Do What Jesus Did; Prayer against Curses & Prayer for the Nations

CHAPTER 7 : Prayer for the Church; Prayer for God’s Servants & Prayer for the Nations

CHAPTER 8 : Prayer Concerning the Mysteries of God & Prayer Concerning the Mysteries of Noah (Prayers from Genesis 6)

CHAPTER 9 : Prayer for the Spirit of Revelation; Prayer to be an Ark Builder & Prayer for the Nations

CHAPTER 10 : Prayer for Strength; Prayer for the Blessings of Abraham & Prayer for the Nations

CHAPTER 11 : Prayer for Light & Prayer to Fulfil Your Ministry

CHAPTER 12 : Prayer for the Holy Spirit; Prayer for the Blessings of Zebedee & Prayer to Bind Demons

CHAPTER 13 : Prayer for the Ministry of Jesus; Prayer for the Divinely Appointed People for Your Life; Prayer to Bind the Enemy & Prayer for the Tsalach Anointing

CHAPTER 14 : Prayer to Become a Beloved Son & Prayer against Temptation

CHAPTER 15 : Prayer to Believe in the Lord and His Prophets & Prayer to Stop the Devil in His Tracks

CHAPTER 16 : Praying with Jesus - Prayer for the Spirit to Come Upon You Like a Dove & Prayer to Bind the Devils that are Following You

CHAPTER 17 : Prayer for Guidance; Prayer for the Ability to be Impressed; Prayer to Bind Devils & Prayer for the Shield of Faith

CHAPTER 18 : Prayer to Give Thanks; Prayer Concerning Sins; & Prayer Concerning our Lord Jesus Christ’s Ministry - Signs and Types of Baptism

CHAPTER 19 : Prayer for God’s Help to Honour Genuinely; Prayer for the Fall of Satan; Prayer for Divine Seats & Prayer for Cleansing by the Blood

CHAPTER 20 : Prayer for the Spirit of Truth & Prayer for Pleasant Lands

CHAPTER 21 : Prayer to Remove Any Idols and gods from Your Life & Prayer Against Curses

CHAPTER 22 : Prayer about Your Prayer Life; Prayer against Snares and Traps; Prayer for Escapes; Prayer from Psalm 106 & Prayer of Dedication to Build God’s House

CHAPTER 23 : Prayer against Sins and Lusts in Your Life & Prayer for an Increase in the Anointing

CHAPTER 24 : Prayer for the Spirit of Power & Prayer against Curses

CHAPTER 25 : Prayer from Psalm 17; Prayer to Secure Angelic Intervention; Prayer Concerning Your Ministry & Prayer from Isaiah 40

CHAPTER 26 : Prayer for Confessions of Sins & Prayer for the Gifts of the Holy Spirit

CHAPTER 27 : Prayer for Forgiveness of Sins; Prayer for the Operation of the Holy Spirit & Prayer for a Blessing

CHAPTER 28 : Prayer that Changes Things; Prayer on Angelic Activities & Prayer to Bind Demons

CHAPTER 29 : Prayer on Psalm 31; Prayer Concerning Your Ministry; Prayer for Humility & Prayer to Bind Demons

CHAPTER 30 : Prayer on Seeing Signs & Prayer to Anoint Eyes

CHAPTER 31 : Prayer for the Influence of the Holy Spirit; Prayer for Forgiveness; Prayer for Wounds to be Healed & Prayer to Bind Snake Spirits

CHAPTER 32 : Prayer from Psalm 74; Prayer against Dragons; Prayer for Forgiveness and Mercy & Prayer for Fresh Anointing and Fruitfulness

CHAPTER 33 : Prayer for the Spirit of Counsel & Prayer for Your Apostolic Ministry

CHAPTER 34 : Prayer from Psalm 106

CHAPTER 35 : More Prayers from Psalm 106 & Prayer Against Devils that are Likely to Follow You

CHAPTER 36 : Prayer against Things to Come & Prayer from Psalm 103

CHAPTER 37 : Prayer Concerning Your Works and Labours & Prayer against Demonic Activities

CHAPTER 38 : Prayer on the Prophetic Direction in Revelation Chapter 3 & Prayer from Psalm 65

CHAPTER 39 : Prayer for the Spirit of Revelation & Prayer for the Blessing in Deuteronomy 28

CHAPTER 40 : Prayer for the Spirit of Grace and Supplications & Prayer for Our Ministries

CHAPTER 41 : Prayer for the Spirit of Prophecy; Prayer for a Blessing & Prayer about The Ministry

CHAPTER 42 : Prayer from Psalm 22

CHAPTER 43 : Prayer from Daniel Chapter 9 & Warfare Prayer from Psalm 110

CHAPTER 44 : Prayer for Ten Dimensions of Daniel’s Wisdom Which Made Him Survive National Crises

CHAPTER 45 : Prayer Changes Things

CHAPTER 46 : Prayer for God to Make You a Watchman; Prayer for the Holy Spirit & Prayer to Bind Demons





The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come.

			Isaiah 21:11-12





CHAPTER 1




Prayer Concerning Why You Were Created and Against Voids and Emptiness in Your Life (Prayers from Genesis 1); Prayer for the Holy Spirit & Prayer for the Nations




		 			In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

			And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.

			And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

			And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.

			Genesis 1:1-4

		 			Prayer Concerning Why You Were Created

			In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

			Genesis 1:1

			1. 	Pray and tell God to show you your purpose and the reason why He created you. You exist for the pleasure of God.

			Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created.

			Revelation 4:11

			2.	Pray that Glory, Honour and Power will be ascribed to your life.

			These 3 things must come to God because He created you.

			a.	Glory

			b.	Honour

			c.	Power

			If you pray for revelation, or spiritual things, God will bring it to pass. Glory means beauty. Honour is the opposite of shame; it is to give respect to a person who has chosen you. Power is attributed to God as a result of a great change in your life.

			3. 	Pray that your life will be called beautiful. Another word that will be associated with your life is “beautiful”.

			He hath made every thing beautiful in his time: also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end.

			Ecclesiastes 3:11

			God created you beautiful. Whatever it is that wants to “scratch out” your beauty will be dealt with by God. If you are patient there will be beauty in your life.

			4. 	Pray and declare over your life that you are fearfully, wonderfully and marvellously made.

			I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: Marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.

			Psalm 139:14

			 These words are being mentioned in relation to your life!

			5. 	Now give thanks for these seven words (Glory, Honour, Power, Beautiful, Fearful, Wonderful and Marvellous) being associated with your life.

			Prayer Against Any Form of Void and Emptiness in Your Life

			And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.

			Genesis 1:2

			Tôhû and Bôhû

			Tôhû and Bôhû are Hebrew words which mean without form and void. They also mean emptiness or an undisguisable ruin.

			I beheld the earth, and, lo, it was without form, and void; and the heavens, and they had no light. I beheld the mountains, and, lo, they trembled, and all the hills moved lightly. I beheld, and, lo, there was no man, and all the birds of the heavens were fled. I beheld, and, lo, the fruitful place was a wilderness, and all the cities thereof were broken down at the presence of the LORD , and by his fierce anger.

			Jeremiah 4:23-26

			You may be created beautifully and wonderfully and yet God can get angry with you. (Most people believe it was between Genesis chapters 1 and 2 - during the Creation - that the devil fell.)

			1. 	Pray that all forms of Tôhû and Bôhû are going out of your life.

			For it is the day of the LORD ‘s vengeance, and the year of recompences for the controversy of Zion. And the streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burning pitch. It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall go up for ever: from generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever. But the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also and the raven shall dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it the line of confusion, and the stones of emptiness.

			Isaiah 34:8-11

			2. 	Come before the Lord for restoration and restitution. Pray for restoration from every darkness.

			Chôshek is a Hebrew word meaning darkness. Darkness was part of the main problems in the world. Anywhere you see the word “darkness”, it is associated with judgement or sin.

			 And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.

			John 3:19

			3. 	Pray that whatever is associated with these three words (Tôhû, Bôhû and Chôshek ) in your life are restored.

			4. 	Pray for revelation.

			The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

			John 10:10

			When the devil has access to a human being he begins to influence the person’s thoughts and ideas. When the devil is successful, the devil in spirit-form becomes a person. So when satan came to Adam and Eve, they suddenly became ashamed.

			5. 	Pray for revelation about every agent leading you to Tôhû and Bôhû. It is banished from your life.

			6. 	Cut off every agent of emptiness in your life. Every agent of Tôhû and Bôhû is cut off.

			Prayer for the Holy Spirit

			Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.

			Proverbs 13:10

			You can’t easily change a person’s mind, unless God changes it. It is only the Spirit of God that can change the destruction and the darkness that exists.

			a.	Pray for the Spirit of holiness: It is not easy to be holy - no matter how hard you try on your own, you will keep falling.

			And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead:

			Romans 1:4

			b.	Pray for the Spirit of power: You cannot stop doing certain things unless you are have power to. Your flesh, heart and mind are all pulling you in different directions and you need the Spirit of power to change.

			c.	Pray for the Spirit of humility: If you become humble, everything about you will change. A humble person thinks differently from a proud person. It is the proud thinking of Lucifer that made him fall. Every evil spirit is connected to pride.

			Prayer for the Nations

			1. Pray for Nigeria, make mention of:

			1. Lagos

			2. Aba

			3. Ibadan

			4. Benin City

			5. Ilorin

			6. Abuja

			7. Jos

			8. Kaduna

			9. Zaria

			10. Kano

			11. Maiduguri

			2. Pray for Congo, make mention of:

			1. Kinshasa

			2. Kananga

			3. Bukavu

			4. Tshikapa

			5. Mbuji- Mayi

			6. Lubumbashi

			7. Kisangani

			3. Pray for Ethiopia, make mention of:

			1. Mek’ele

			2. Gondar

			3. Bahir dar

			4. Dese

			5. Kombolcha

			6. Dire dawa

			7. Debre birhan

			8. Addis ababa

			9. Jimma

			10. Awassa

			11. Adama

			12. Jijiga

				Give God thanks for answered prayers.





CHAPTER 2




Prayer for Light & Prayer for the Blessing of Fruitfulness




		 			And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day... And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

			Genesis 1:3-5, 21-22



		 			The watchman is meant to do three things: enquire, return and come. To enquire is to seek understanding from God. To return is to come back. When Rick Joyner had a vision, God told him that when he returned to earth, everything would seem vague. To come means to go (deeper) into God. Every watchman who wakes up to pray must learn to enquire, return and come closer to the Lord. To enquire is to seek things from God.

			Pray and enquire from God.

			Prayer for Light

			1.	Pray for the light of God in your Life

			When God said let there be light on the first day, it could not have been the sun because He made the sun on the fourth day. This means there are other types of light, apart from the stars, moonlight or sunlight.

			And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day.

			Genesis 1:3-5

			And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years: And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so. And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also. And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth, and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good. And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

			Genesis 1:14-19

			2. 	Pray that whatever represents light should come into your life. Darkness is associated with evil. Darkness and light are not necessarily night and day.

			Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness.

			1 Thessalonians 5:5

			Seven Types of Light

			a.	Pray for the light of knowledge. There is a form of darkness when you don’t know certain things.

			For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.

			2 Corinthians 4:6

			b.	 Pray for the light of the Word of God.

			The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.

			Psalm 119:130

			Pray for the light of the Word of God for your life.

			When someone is “enlightened”, it means that they know a lot. People sometimes interact with you to see if you are enlightened. When someone knows a lot but does not have the Word of God, they are still in darkness.

			c.	Pray for the light of the Law of God.

			For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life:

			Proverbs 6:23

			Pray that God would show you seven laws in the Bible or seven laws that have been given to you through your parents.

			A law is a rule that God gives you; it is light for your life. Countries that are lawless are full of darkness. The lives of people who break laws are full of darkness.

			Pray that whatever law there is, will be a light in your life.

			d.	Pray for the light of the gospel.

			In whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them.

			2 Corinthians 4:4

			Billy Graham preached the gospel. There are many things you can preach about; but the gospel is light.

			e.	Pray for the light of judgement.

			Therefore, have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are as the light that goeth forth.

			Hosea 6:5

			Pray that you will never be angry when you are judged or corrected in anyway.

			Judgement is a decision that is taken about you. People respond to judgement in different ways. When a person perceives he has been mistreated, he also would not like nor agree with the judgement that is passed against him. If you were to visit a prison, you would find that many inmates proclaim their innocence and believe that they do not deserve to be there. However, judgement is necessary. Judgement is a light. When judgement is missing from your life there is a light missing.

			f.	Pray for the light of life.

			The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe. He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light. That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.

			John 1:7-9

			Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.

			John 8:12

			The light of your life is something that guides you to the left, right or straight. Google maps is a bit like the light of life, you don’t know where you are going but it tells you where to go. If you do not receive Jesus you will wonder what to do with your life. The light of your life is Jesus Christ. I have been working for the Lord for many years and I don’t see how it has been a disadvantage to me.

			“Who should you marry?” Jesus will tell you.

			“When should I marry?” Jesus will tell you.

			Pray for the light of life.

			g.	Pray for the light of revelation.

			Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon thee.

			Isaiah 60:1

			Pray that in the biggest issue of your life, Jesus Christ would be revealed to you as the answer. Whatever you do, the light for that particular issue will come from Jesus.

			You shine when a certain light comes on! I am talking about “thy light” not any light, I mean a revelation for you.

			In June of 1988, when I was in Suhum, a light came to me. That light was, “From today you can teach.” Don’t think that at any point in time, anyone who has a revelation is sure of their revelation. Everyone who has a revelation, even those who say they have seen Jesus are unsure as to whether they really saw Him. You need to have faith in the revelation that God gives you.

			When I heard the voice, “From today you can teach”, I could have begun to question it; but somehow, I believed that it was from God. What revelation has God given to you? It will make you shine in this life. When God told Kenneth Hagin to teach, he looked odd because everyone was an evangelist. Even so, he continued in the teaching ministry.

			Prayer for the Blessing of Fruitfulness

			And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

			Genesis 1:21-22

			It is a great blessing to be fruitful. Fruitfulness makes you happy. When women give birth, even though they go through a lot of pain and inconveniences, they are happy in the end. When you are not fruitful you are not blessed in a certain way. It is unexplainable as to why a woman would want to give birth again and again. Fruitfulness is a blessing. Being fruitful is what you must desire for your life and not more money.

			1. 	Pray for the blessing of fruitfulness.

			And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

			Genesis 1:26-28

			I remember many years ago I was in England praying that God would make me fruitful. God will answer your prayer.

			2. 	Pray for God to touch you. If God touches you, everything about you bears fruit.

			The Prophetic Blessings

			I prophesy that whatever you are involved with is going to have the touch of fruitfulness!

			No matter what you are doing, it will be called fruitful and will just grow in your hand!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 3




Prayer for the Holy Spirit; Prayer for the Original Blessings of Fruitfulness & Prayer for the Nations




		 			And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

			Genesis 1:26

		 			The Holy Spirit has a form. The Holy Spirit looks like a man. When you perceive the Holy Spirit as a person, you can relate with the Holy Spirit and have a better relationship with Him. If you ever have a chance to listen to Benny Hinn talk about the Holy Spirit, you would notice how real the Holy Spirit is to him. You would also realize how he relates to the Holy Spirit as a Person.

			Prayer for the Holy Spirit

			And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

			Genesis 1:26

			And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;

			John 14:16

			1. Pray for the Holy Spirit to come into your life.

			Some people may feel it is derogatory to reduce the Holy Spirit to a man, but that is not the case. When you think of the Holy Spirit as a person it helps you to form a picture in your mind. As you pray for the Holy Spirit you will see a “man” coming to stand by you. When you pray for the Spirit of wisdom, Wisdom will stand by you. In Rick Joyner’s book, “The Final Quest”, he describes Wisdom as a real person.

			Wherever you are today, you need great help, and this great help is coming in the form of the Holy Spirit.

			When the Holy Spirit comes, He comes to help us. When you serve God, the Spirit of humility and the Spirit of holiness are very important. If there is something wrong about your ministry, it usually concerns one of these two things - humility or holiness.

			Lift your hands and pray for the Holy Spirit.

			a.	Pray for the Spirit of Holiness

			b.	Pray for the Spirit of Humility

			c.	Pray for the Spirit of Faith

			d.	Pray for the Spirit of Love

			e.	Pray for the Spirit of Revelation

			Love is a spirit. When you don’t have love, you don’t have the Holy Spirit. We need the Holy Spirit.

			2. 	Pray for the Spirit of faith and love.

			The Spirit of revelation means that something is revealed to you. You must expect things to be revealed to you. You must expect God to reveal His Word, knowledge and wisdom. God’s wisdom is what you must do (about something). When you lack understanding you cannot relate with people. Relationships are reduced because of lack of understanding.

			3. 	Pray for revelation.

			Pray for the Spirit of revelation to come and stand by you.

			I heard Kenneth Hagin say that he prays many times for the Spirit of revelation. Many of the books I write are unique topics; it is a revelation of something.

			4. 	Thank God for the Holy Spirit.

			A man of God once said that the right way of showing gratitude, is to say “Thank you” even before an item given is placed into your hands. When you say “Thank you” it is a sign of acceptance of something.

			Prayer for the Original Blessing of Fruitfulness

			And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

			Genesis 1:28

			Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;

			Genesis 3:18

			1. 	Pray for the original blessing of fruitfulness from God. It is not easy to be fruitful.

			2. 	Pray that the thorns and thistles in your life would be burnt.

			Pray against thorns that are coming from your work.

			Perhaps your work is giving you some thorns or something as painful. You can go to a particular workplace and wish you never went there.

			3. 	Pray for twelve kinds of fruits in your life and ministry.

			And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb. In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.

			Revelation 22:1-2

			God has imparted to you the tree of life that bears twelve kinds of fruits!

			Twelve Kinds of Fruits

			a.	Your souls won

			b.	Your sheep

			c.	Your disciples

			d.	Your followers

			e.	Your sons

			f.	Your daughters

			g.	Your flocks

			h.	Your strangers

			i.	Nations

			j.	Kings

			k.	Priest and ministers

			l.	Forces of the gentiles

			And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and the sons of the alien shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers. But ye shall be named the Priests of the LORD: men shall call you the Ministers of our God: ye shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, and in their glory shall ye boast yourselves.

			Isaiah 61:5-6

			Trees are meant to have more fruit. It is only a curse that makes a tree not bear fruits.

			4. 	Pray against any curse that does not make you bear fruits.

			5. 	Pray for good fruits that speak louder than words.

			You are known by your fruits. Good fruits will tell if you are corrupt or not corrupt. When you bear the fruits God wants you to bear, no one will be able to challenge who you are. They may say what they want to say, but a corrupt tree does not bring forth good fruits.

			As you pray for fruits you will be known by your fruits.

			For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.

			Luke 6:43-44

			In your ministry you need fruits. The curse of barrenness is broken today!

			If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not. But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him.

			John 10:37-38

			Prayer for the Nations

			Pray for:

			●	Senegal

			●	Guinea

			●	Sierra Leone

			●	Gambia

			●	Liberia

			●	Ivory Coast

			●	Mali

			●	Burkina Faso

			●	Niger

			●	Nigeria

			●	Cameroon

			●	Democratic Republic of the Congo

			●	Angola

			●	Namibia

			●	Botswana

			●	South Africa

			●	Lesotho

			●	Mozambique

			●	Malawi

			●	Zambia

			●	United Republic of Tanzania

			●	Kenya

			●	Ethiopia

			●	South Sudan

			●	Central African Republic

			●	England

			●	France

			●	Italy

			●	Germany

			●	India

			●	Bangladesh

			●	Sri Lanka

			●	Thailand

				Thank God for answered prayers.





CHAPTER 4




Prayer about Things You Must Never Do; Prayer to Become a Good Son & Prayer for the Nations




		 			The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come.

			Isaiah 21:11-12

1. 	Pray for mercy and forgiveness.

			Pray against any manifestation of pride. Pray for mercy.

			Pray for forgiveness.

			2. 	Pray against any form of pride and lust.

			Many things are done out of pride and lust.

			3. 	Pray concerning the one thing that God has told you to do.

			And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:

			Genesis 2:15-16

			As you relate with God, you will begin to see that He gives you instructions on things to do and things not to do. God told Derek Prince to go and preach on the radio and many people got to know him through that. When God tells you to do something, it makes you fruitful. God is constantly speaking to us and instructing us.

			4. 	Pray concerning the one thing that the Holy Spirit has told you not to do.

			There are also some things that God instructs you not to do. Do not think that your desire or love for God can prevent you from falling. God told “perfect” Adam and Eve not to eat of the tree. There is something God has told you not to do.

			5. 	Pray about what God has told you do that will make you fruitful.

			6. 	Pray for grace.

			You may never know what you are capable of doing. People who have had higher aspirations than you have fallen to certain sins. They had more noble goals than you did but they still fell.

			Seven Things to Pray about That You Will Never Do

			a.	Pray that you will never blaspheme against the Lord.

			And he that blasphemeth the name of the LORD, he shall surely be put to death, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him: as well the stranger, as he that is born in the land, when he blasphemeth the name of the LORD, shall be put to death.

			Leviticus 24:16

			b.	Pray that you do not touch holy things.

			And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about, saying, Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up into the mount, or touch the border of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to death:

			Exodus 19:12

			c.	Pray that you will never kill anyone accidentally.

			Neither shall he go out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him: I am the LORD.

			Leviticus 21:12

			d.	Pray that you will never attack your father.

			Anyone who attacks their father or mother is to be put to death.

			Anyone who curses their father or mother is to be put to death.

			Exodus 21:15, 17 (NIV)

			e.	Pray that you will never not rest.

			Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore,; for it is holy unto you: every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.

			Exodus 31:14

			f.	Pray that you will never commit the sin of idol worship.

			Again, thou shalt say to the children of Israel, Whosoever he be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, that giveth any of his seed unto Molech; he shall surely be put to death: the people of the land shall stone him with stones.

			Leviticus 20:2

			g.	Pray that you will never commit adultery.

			And the man that committeth adultery with another man’s wife, even he that committeth adultery with his neighbour’s wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death. And the man that lieth with his father’s wife hath uncovered his father’s nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.

			Leviticus 20:10-11

			Prayer That You Will Be a Good Son

			And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD. And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD. And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering: but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell. And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen? If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.

			Genesis 4:1-7

			You must realize you are not being judged based only on what you say. Your face and what you don’t say is part of your communication. You say a lot through your attitude and your face.

			1. 	Pray that you will be one of the good sons or daughters and not an evil son.

			Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother’s righteous.

			1 John 3:12

			2. 	Pray to be a good child to anyone who has looked after you or has cared for you even spiritually.

			3. 	Pray against the characteristics of Cain.

			a.	Cain did not know what to do. Pray that you will know what to do.

			Pray and bind the spirit of not knowing.

			Unlike Cain, Abel knew what to do. We have certain characteristics because we are born in sin. People commit sin and say they “didn’t know”. This is the spirit of not knowing what is right. But you have to be careful. You must know what is right.

			And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering: but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

			Genesis 4:4-5

			And of the children of Issachar, which were men that had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do; the heads of them were two hundred; and all their brethren were at their commandment.

			1 Chronicles 12:32

			You can give an excuse that you did not know something, but you cannot stand behind the excuse of ignorance forever. You must know what is right.

			When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat? And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do.

			John 6:5-6

			b.	Cain was not sacrificial. Pray that you will be sacrificial and not give poor sacrifices.

			Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother’s righteous.

			1 John 3:12

			There must be an element of sacrifice in our service to God. A sacrifice is not just in giving money but it can be in many other ways. You do not have to broadcast your sacrifice to everyone.

			The evil spirit of not sacrificing will be taken away as you pray!

			I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.

			Romans 12:1

			c.	Cain was a quarrelsome person. Pray that you will not be quarrelsome.

			Pray to flush out any form of quarrelsomeness from your life.

			When you have a quarrelsome person around, quarrels come up even when there is no issue. The pattern of a quarrelsome person is that there is always something to quarrel about. The very presence of the person is always followed by quarrels.

			Pray that you will not have that spirit.

			d.	Pray that you will not be schismatic. Pray that you will not cause division anywhere you are.

			A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject;

			Titus 3:10

			You will not be associated with bringing division in your family.

			Cain and Abel were divided. A lot of families are divided into “mummy’s supporters” or “daddy’s supporters.” Division is of the devil.

			e.	Pray that you will not be proud. Pray that you will not be a person full of pride.

			Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.

			Proverbs 13:10

			You will find quarrels everywhere there is a proud person. Pride brings issues.

			f.	Pray that envy will not be found in you. Pray against envy because envy causes conflict. Cain was envious that God accepted Abel.

			Pray that envy will not be found in you.

				Prayer for the Nations

			a.	Pray for the USA

			b.	Pray for India

			c.	Pray for Nigeria

				Thank God for answered prayers.





CHAPTER 5




Prayer for the Holy Spirit; Prayer for Teaching Gifts & Prayer for the Nations




		 			If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?

			Luke 11:13



		 			Give thanks unto God.

			The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come.

			Isaiah 21:11-12

			Prayer for the Holy Spirit

			If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?

			Luke 11:13

			…and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead:

			Romans 1:4

			As you pray for the Holy Spirit, you will be declared to be God’s child.

			A declaration is very important. Big changes take place in your life when you are declared to be God’s child. It is through the power of God with the Spirit of holiness that you are declared to be God’s child. Holiness means sacredness and moral purity; it also means majesty and to be special. Holiness is something we struggle with. It is difficult to be morally pure and sacred. It takes the Spirit of holiness to be morally pure.

			1.	Pray for the Holy Spirit.

			To be sacred means to be important in a special way. If you look at the Jews, especially on the sabbath day, they distinguish themselves from everyone.

			2.	Pray for the Spirit of Holiness.

			The Spirit of holiness will take you to the next level by affecting two areas of your life.

			The Spirit of holiness will deal with the filthiness of your flesh and spirit. What is in your heart? - Sins like pride, envy and many more that cannot be easily seen.

			Pray for the Spirit of holiness and the Holy Spirit!

			Having therefore, these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.

			2 Corinthians 7:1

			3.	Pray for the Spirit of Humility.

			The Spirit of humility is God’s Spirit. The spirit you possess turns you into its likeness. If you have the Spirit of humility, you will be humble. Praying for the Spirit of humility will make you humble yourself. Humility does not make you feel as though you are being cheated.

			Pray and ask God not to feel you are being cheated.

			The Spirit of humility blocks evil spirits. Some people cannot speak to someone that is younger than them. Having the ability to relate with other races requires humility.

			Pray for the Spirit of humility.

			Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:

			Philippians 2:6

			Now therefore, there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why do ye not rather take wrong? why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded?

			1 Corinthians 6:7

			1 Corinthians 6:7 describes what happens to Christians who feel that they are being defrauded.

			Pray that this will not be you. Pray for humility.

			Being concerned about your reputation is a sign of pride. As you serve God, you will encounter people who have all kinds of opinions about you. You don’t need to fight against it but rather pray for the ability not to be concerned about the thoughts people have against you.

			But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:

			Philippians 2:7

			4.	Pray for the Spirit to serve.

			A servant is someone who serves, who does errands and runs around to accomplish the will of the person who sent him. A servant is someone who God sends. When you learn to accept low things, you will be accepted for high things.

			The dictionary defines a “servant” as: one who serves, or does services, voluntarily or on compulsion; a person who is employed by another for menial offices, or for other labour, and is subject to his command; a person who labours or exerts himself for the benefit of another, his master or employer; a subordinate helper.

			Pray that you would have a spirit to serve.

			5. 	Pray that you will accept that you are a “man”. When you do not accept you are normal human being, you end up behaving abnormally.

			But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:

			Philippians 2:7

			6. 	Pray that you will become obedient.

			Pray that you will be obedient unto death.

				To be humble means to lower one’s self unto obedience because humility makes you obedient.

			God is sending the Holy Spirit to you and you are becoming obedient.

			You cannot become holy or obedient by your own strength.

			And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.

			Philippians 2:8

			Prayer for Teaching Gifts to Come Out of You

			In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.

			Revelation 22:2

			God is going to make you to bear all types of fruits.

			You can bear fruit out of the ministry gift you have. For example, there are many fruits that come from a teaching ministry.

			a.	Pray that you will be a good teacher who transmits understanding.

			I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.

			Psalm 119:99

			People explain and understand things differently.

			Pray that the grace of teaching will be on you. Pray that people will understand you as a teacher.

			b.	Pray that you will be a good counsellor.

			And I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning: afterward thou shalt be called, The city of righteousness, the faithful city.

			Isaiah 1:26

			Being a counsellor is one of the fruits of your teaching ministry.

			Pray that you will be a good counsellor.

			c.	Pray for the fruit of rebuke in your teaching ministry.

			Sometimes you will not learn anything without a rebuke. Many people do not respond to counselling. Sometimes a person needs to be rebuked in order to be taught.

			Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.

			2 Timothy 4:2

			It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.

			Ecclesiastes 7:5

			As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore, and repent.

			Revelation 3:19

			d.	Pray for the fruit of example setting in your teaching ministry.

			Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity.

			1 Timothy 4:12

			Through example-setting you can minister lifestyle, words, faith, anointing, purity, love. A shepherd moves and the people follow. Your example-setting ministry is a fruit.

			Reverend Adeboye1 said a person through whom a word comes is very important. Those who teach people actually receive more because they do not only teach, but set examples.

			e.	Pray for the fruit of exhortation in your teaching ministry.

			Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.

			2 Timothy 4:2

			To exhort is to stir up. A certain man of God, who is also a teacher, described his own teaching as flat and prosaic; but there are some people who teach and stir you up. That is exhortation.

			f.	Pray for the fruit of teaching as a pastor or a shepherd in your teaching ministry.

			And I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding.

			Jeremiah 3:15

			Knowledge and understanding come by teaching. This is the fruit that allows you to keep teaching without getting tired. It is the fruit that doesn’t make people get tired of listening to you.

			g.	Pray for the fruit of reading in your teaching ministry.

			And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read.

			Luke 4:16

			Reading is a type of ministry. Reading is like preaching. If you listen to audio books it is like listening to preaching.

			h.	Pray for the fruit of writing a song in your teaching ministry.

			Moses therefore, wrote this song the same day, and taught it the children of Israel.

			Deuteronomy 31:22

			Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the LORD into the hand of Asaph and his brethren. Give thanks unto the LORD, call upon his name, Make known his deeds among the people.

			1 Chronicles 16:7-8

			The songs that Tommy Walker2 has written also teach. Writing songs is a form of teaching.

			i.	Pray for the fruit of singing a song in your teaching ministry.

			Your singing ministry is one of the fruits of your teaching ministry. Sometimes you may have to appoint someone to sing a song you have written.

			And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the ark of the LORD , and to record, and to thank and praise the LORD God of Israel: Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obed-edom: and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asaph made a sound with cymbals;

			1 Chronicles 16:4-5

			Prayer for the Nations

			a.	Pray for the Democratic Republic of the Congo

			b.	Pray for Angola

				Thank God for answered prayers.



			1 General Overseer, Redeemed Christian Church of God

			2 Tommy Walker is a Christian songwriter and gospel artist





CHAPTER 6




Prayer to Walk With God and to Do What Jesus Did; Prayer against Curses & Prayer for the Nations




		 			And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters: And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died. And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: ...And Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel: And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters: And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died. And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters: And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died. And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch: And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters: ...And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: and Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters: and all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years: And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him.And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech. And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters: ...And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son: And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD hath cursed.

			Genesis 5:4-6, 12-19, 21-26, 28-29



		 			Give thanks to God and praise Him.

			Prayer to Walk With God

			1.	Pray that you will walk with God all the days of your life.

			And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters: And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died. And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: …And Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel: And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters: And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died. And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters: And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died. And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch: And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters: …And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: and Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters: and all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years: And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him. And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech. And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters: …And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son: And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD hath cursed.

			Genesis 5:4-6, 12-19, 21-26, 28-29

			The Bible is one of the oldest books with records all the way back to Adam. Enoch walked with God and God took him. A person who walks with God is different from all other men. The grace of Enoch is what we need. You will notice that in your class, amongst your friends and in your family, not many of them walk with God.

			Enoch walked with God after having a child. Not many people walk with God after having a child. Having a child is a milestone in life. There are so many changes that come after having a child; but Enoch, even after he had his child, walked with God.

			2.	Pray and commit yourself to walk with God to the end of your life.

			I believe that walking with God is what makes a difference in life. Will you walk with God or walk alone all your life? If we can get close to God, it will affect your life in a great way.

			And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:

			Genesis 5:22

			Prayer for 7 Ways of Walking with God

			a.	Pray that you will walk with God before you have children.

			Serving God before you have responsibilities and serving God afterwards are two different things. They are like two different lives. You will notice that younger women are much more cheerful and happier looking than older women.

			b.	Pray that you walk with God even after you have children and responsibilities.

			c.	Pray that you walk with God no matter how your life is.

			It is not common to see someone get to 100 years old; so imagine meeting someone who lived for 400 years. It would make you wonder how their life was. If you live in America your life will be different from someone living in Ghana. Every place is different and everyone is experiencing something different.

			Pray that you will walk with God, no matter the type of life you are experiencing.

			d.	Pray that you will walk with God till the end of your life, as you grow older may you draw closer to God.

			By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.

			Hebrews 11:5

			God translated Enoch. Enoch was not found. When you walk with God, you please God.

			As you grow older you also have a tendency to do evil but it plays out in a horrible way. Both young and old people are struggling to serve God!

			For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as was the heart of David his father.

			1 Kings 11:4

			e.	Pray that you walk with God in truth.

			f.	Pray that you walk with God in righteousness.

			g.	Pray that you walk with God in uprightness of heart.

			And Solomon said, Thou hast shewed unto thy servant David my father great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee; and thou hast kept for him this great kindness, that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day.

			1 Kings 3:6

			3.	Pray for the grace to walk with God.

			Many of us are walking in deception. Many of us are not living in righteousness. When someone lies to you they begin to go far from you. Telling the truth is part of walking with someone because you draw close to a person as you speak the truth. Walking with God is walking in truth, walking in righteousness and walking in uprightness of heart. God will show you great kindness as you walk with Him.

			Seven Things That Jesus Did That You Must Do

			1. 	Pray for seven things that Jesus did that you must also do to be more like Jesus and walk closely to Him.

			In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God... He came unto his own, and his own received him not. But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name:

			John 1:1, 11-12

			God in His great mercy for us decided to send His Son to come to us and show us how He is. Jesus came full of grace and truth but men rejected Him. Walking with God is walking with Jesus. Once you can accept Jesus and walk according to His will, it is actually walking with God because walking with Jesus is walking with God.

			2.	Pray and write down seven things that Jesus did that you must do.

			Seven Things

			a.	Pray that you will flow with those who accept you.

			Not everyone accepts you, there are many that hate you.

			He came unto his own, and his own received him not.

			John 1:11

			b.	Pray that you will be full of graciousness. Jesus’ glory was that He was full of grace.

			And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.

			John 1:14

			c.	Pray that you will be full of truth.

			And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.

			John 1:14

			d.	Pray that you will go into the world.

			He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not.

			John 1:10-11

			e.	Pray that you will have something to show the world.

			He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day: for it was about the tenth hour.

			John 1:39

			f.	Pray that you will be able to tell people to follow you.

			The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me.

			John 1:43

			g.	Pray that you will believe in angels.

			And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.

			John 1:51

			4. 	Pray that you will please God.

			By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.

			Hebrews 11:5

			The Bible is a book of miracles and fantastic stories. If you don’t have faith you can not be a Christian. You need to believe in miracles. Enoch pleased God. It is not easy to please humans, how much more God.

			But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.

			Hebrews 11:6

			Enoch must have been a real man of faith. He must have believed things. You must believe in God and His words.

			5.	Pray that God will like you.

			Howbeit the LORD God of Israel chose me before all the house of my father to be king over Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah to be the ruler; and of the house of Judah, the house of my father; and among the sons of my father he liked me to make me king over all Israel:

			1 Chronicles 28:4

			We are all called God’s bride.

			Pray for God to give you grace to become someone He would like.

			Prayer against Curses

			1. 	Pray against generational curses.

			Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed remaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.

			1 John 3:9

			If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

			1 John 1:8-9

			Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.

			1 Peter 1:5

			Even though we are redeemed from every curse, there are still curses that have to be removed.

			And when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly, and smote him there under the fifth rib, that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother. And afterward when David heard it, he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless before the LORD for ever from the blood of Abner the son of Ner: Let it rest on the head of Joab, and on all his father’s house; and let there not fail from the house of Joab one that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread.

			2 Samuel 3:27-29

			2. 	Pray that God will intervene against any curse that brings an issue or a sore.

			3.	Pray against generational curses of leprosy.

			Let it rest on the head of Joab, and on all his father’s house; and let there not fail from the house of Joab one that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread.

			2 Samuel 3:29

			The curse of a leper represents a cancer or an incurable disease.

			You are healed from every incurable disease. Receive total freedom from every demonic attachment in your life.

			4.	Pray against the curse of “one that leaneth on a staff”.

			Let it rest on the head of Joab, and on all his father’s house; and let there not fail from the house of Joab one that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread.

			2 Samuel 3:29

			One “that leaneth on a staff” symbolises a cripple or someone who is weak.

			The curse is going away. I declare a disconnection from whatever makes you lean on a staff, whatever makes you need a walking stick, whatever causes blindness or whatever makes you need assistance.

			Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

			Romans 5:12

			One man brought sin and then death followed; and this has now passed down to all men.

			5.	Pray against the devil. Pray for deliverance from generational curses. Plead the blood of Jesus!

			Let it rest on the head of Joab, and on all his father’s house; and let there not fail from the house of Joab one that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread.

			2 Samuel 3:29

			Prayer for the Nations

			1.	Pray for salvation, pray for mercy and pray for strength for the nations.

			a.	Pray for Burma

			b.	Pray for Vietnam

			c.	Pray for Laos

			d.	Pray for Thailand

			e.	Pray for Cambodia

			f.	Pray for Bangladesh

			g.	Pray for your nation wherever you are.

			I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men; For kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.

			1 Timothy 2:1-2

			2.	Pray for all those that are in charge and in authority of your country that you are in.

			The king’s heart is in the hand of the LORD, As the rivers of water: he turneth it whithersoever he will.

			Proverbs 21:1





CHAPTER 7




Prayer for the Church; Prayer for God’s Servants & Prayer for the Nations




		 			Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.

			Psalm 65:4

		 			1.	Give thanks to God.

			Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.

			Psalm 65:4

			Praying for the Sick

			Kenneth Hagin had visions of Jesus on several occasions. During one of such encounters, the Lord said to him to always pray for the sick because it would result in a different outcome. Sometimes situations and problems look overwhelming, as though nothing good can come out of them. But when we pray it makes a difference!

			2. 	Pray that joy will come into the world, that everywhere you operate from will be called a house of prayer - not a house of strife but a house of prayer.

			These I will bring to my holy mountain and give them joy in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and sacrifices will be accepted on my altar; for my house will be called a house of prayer for all nations.”

			Isaiah 56:7 (NIV)

			3.	Pray that your gifts and offering will be accepted.

			Sometimes your offering or gift is not accepted. I have had the experience of receiving a gift which was more of an insult, because gifts have meanings.

			When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand, to tread my courts? Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with; it is iniquity, even the solemn meeting. ...Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil; Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow. Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.

			Isaiah 1:12-13, 16-18

			4. 	Pray and bind every demonic work that seeks to destroy the church and God’s servant.

			(for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;)

			2 Corinthians 10:4

			5.	Pray and cast down all imagination that exalts itself against the knowledge of God. Whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven.

			Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.

			Matthew 18:18

			6.	Pray and bind demonic powers.

			A cobra is a picture of a threatening snake.

			Curse and bind every threatening spirit.

			Declare judgement on every python spirit.

			Pray and curse every deceptive spirit.

			Every cobra, every python deceptive spirit is brought down 	 now!

			(for the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;) Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ;

			2 Corinthians 10:4-5

			7. 	Pray for “the gift”.

			Ye also helping together by prayer for us, that for the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many persons thanks may be given by many on our behalf.

			2 Corinthians 1:11

			To write books, have conferences or build a Bible school is all part of the gift bestowed upon you.

			Pray for the gift.

			8. 	Pray that God would open unto you a door of utterance.

			Withal praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds:

			Colossians 4:3

			There are many things that happen to ministers because of the mystery of Christ.

			9. Pray for your servant of God.

			Brethren, pray for us.

			1 Thessalonians 5:25

			Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may have free course, and be glorified, even as it is with you:

			2 Thessalonians 3:1

			Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly.

			Hebrews 13:18

			10. 	Pray that we will all love God.

			He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.

			John 14:21

			It is not just by saying, but by actually keeping God’s commandments that show that you love God.

			Pray to love God.

			Pray that you would keep His commandments.

			Pray that you would serve Him.

			Pray for mercy.

			Pray for mercy that God would be kind to you. You don’t want to go to heaven and find out you missed the mark.

			Prayer for the Nations

			1.	Pray for the Nations.

			2. 	Thank God for answered prayers. Thank God that grace will lead you home.

			...and to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the church in thy house:

			Philemon 1:2

			You will be a fellow soldier in the battle for Christ!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 8




Prayer Concerning the Mysteries of God & Prayer Concerning the Mysteries of Noah (Prayers from Genesis 6)




		 			And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them,

			That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose.

			And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.

			There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown.

			And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.

			And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.

			And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and

			beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.

			But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord.

			These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God.

			And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

			The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.

			And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.

			And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.

			Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.

			Genesis 6:1-14

		 			Prayer Concerning the Mysteries of God

			And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them, That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.

			Genesis 6:1-3

			1.	Pray that you will not shorten your life.

			God changed His mind about how long men would live on the earth when man worsened in his sinful state. Life and the shortening of life is very much connected to sin.

			For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.

			Romans 6:23

			This is what caused God to give man only 10% of his life expectancy. Everybody after Adam’s sin could not live over 1000 years.

			Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death.

			James 1:15

			Death is definitely connected to sin. It is the crossing of certain lines that provoke God.

			2.	Pray that you will never commit a sin that crosses a certain line.

			And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.

			Genesis 6:5-6

			When man crossed a certain line, God changed His mind. If you cross a certain line in relation to God, it changes God’s mind because God has a mind which changes.

			3. 	Pray concerning the lusts that are in you.

			Lust conceives sin and sin when it is finished brings forth death. We need to pray about the lusts that we have within us. It could be that there is a major lust to go to America and that desire can lead to your destruction. There may be a lurking desire within you. Your lust could be money. If you read my book, “Those Who Leave You1”, it mentions money as one of the reasons why people leave. There are so many lusts in us, it is scary.

			When God was angry with Adam and Eve, He said to Eve, “Your desire will be for a man.” A “desire” was a punishment because your desire will lead to many things and those things would be the things that would become a punishment for the woman. Sometimes we don’t even know what we desire until an opportunity comes and it manifests itself.

			Pray that God will deliver you from all lusts.

			4.	Pray for forgiveness of sins.

			There are many sins but certain sins should never be committed.

			Whatever sin it is that can change God’s mind about your life and calling, may God show mercy. Pray.

			Pray for the forgiveness of any sin that causes you to cross a certain line. Pray to be delivered from them. Whatever sin is very great in the sight of the Lord, may God forgive us in advance.

			1 (2011) Those Who Leave You; Parchment House, Accra,

			5.	Pray for God not to change His good mind about you.

			May God not change His good mind about you.

			6.	Pray that God will change His mind about any punishment that is destined against you.

				Your prayers can change God’s mind about any punishment you are about to receive. Your prayers are powerful.

			Thus the Lord God showed me, and behold, He was forming a locust-swarm when the spring crop began to sprout. And behold, the spring crop was after the king’s mowing. And it came about, when it had finished eating the vegetation of the land, that I said, “Lord God , please pardon! How can Jacob stand, For he is small?” The Lord changed His mind about this. “It shall not be,” said the Lord . Thus the Lord God showed me, and behold, the Lord God was calling to contend with them by fire, and it consumed the great deep and began to consume the farm land. Then I said, “Lord God , please stop! How can Jacob stand, for he is small?” The Lord changed His mind about this. “This too shall not be,” said the Lord God .

			Amos 7:1-6 NASB

			Prayer Concerning the Mysteries of Noah

			1.	Pray for the Spirit of life to be with you.

			And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.

			Genesis 6:3

			It is the Holy Spirit who gives life. If God’s Spirit does not want to abide (strive) with us anymore, then it is the end of life! Remember, when man was just clay, God breathed His Spirit into man and he became a living soul and life came into him.

			Let’s pray for the Spirit of life, that the Spirit of God would be upon us.

			If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?

			Luke 11:13

			Who also hath made us able ministers of the new testament; not of the letter, but of the spirit: for the letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.

			2 Corinthians 3:6

			 Ask God for the Holy Spirit! The Holy Spirit who gives life!

			2. 	Pray to find grace in the eyes of the Lord.

			But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord.

			Genesis 6:8

			Pray that you would find grace in God’s eyes. You may be subject to evil things but you will be exempted as you find grace in God’s sight!

			3.	Pray that God will speak to you.

			And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.

			Genesis 6:13

			When you find grace in the sight of God, God begins to speak with you. That is why sometimes, when I go to pray and I am not able to hear from God I feel like I have not found grace in His eyes.

			Pray for God to speak to you.

			4.	Pray to be close to God so He speaks to you about how He feels.

			God told Noah what He was feeling. When you relate with someone and the person doesn’t tell you what he thinks it means he isn’t close to you. Telling someone how you feel is different from giving instructions. When someone tells you how they feel the person is closer to you.

			I Knew His Mind

			I was once talking to somebody some years ago when the person asked me what I thought about something. But before I could answer, he gave me a response. It wasn’t an instruction to do anything but it was concerning another individual; and immediately I knew his mind on the issue. This is what makes you close to somebody.

			5.	Pray that you will do whatever instruction God gives you.

			Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.

			Genesis 6:14

			6.	Pray that you become one of the agents of salvation. God is a God of salvation.

			The Lord liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted.

			Psalm 18:46

			He shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation.

			Psalm 24:5

			Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my salvation; on thee do I wait all the day.

			Psalm 25:5

			Right from the beginning, God has been trying to save. God involved Noah in salvation. If you find grace in God’s eyes, He will involve you in salvation.

			Even when God was angry with Israel and decided to destroy them, He saved the young ones. God doesn’t destroy what He builds. God is always trying to save the very thing that He is judging. When God wants to save you, He will give you someone who will be a blessing to you. The work of the devil is to destroy. He wants to destroy the ark that is being built and he wants to destroy who is being sent to you.

			Plucked from the Fire

			John Wesley was once in a house that caught fire. When his family ran out of the house, John’s father realised that he was still in the building. John’s father ran back into the house in an attempt to save John and he did! Many years later, when John Wesley was very sick and thought he was going to die, he wrote what should be written on his epitaph, “A brand plucked out of the fire”, in remembrance of what had happened to him in his childhood.

			Pray that you will be an agent of salvation through soul winning and church planting.

			7.	Pray that your family will be used to build an ark.

			Many will be lost, but some people will be saved! God is the One who saves people. We are either joining hands with God or joining in with the devil. God is going to use you and your whole family to build an ark. Noah, his wife, and his children - Shem, Ham, Japheth were used to build an ark.

			Pray that your family will be an ark building family and not ark destroyers.

			8.	Bind the adversary that opposes the building of the ark.

			Bind the adversary that opposes any church building.

			The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

			John 10:10

			Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.

			Matthew 18:18

			Anyone trying to crack the side of the ark to make it have a hole and sink is bound today!

			Lift your hands and declare judgement on all ark breakers and all ark attackers

			We bind the snake and the crocodile spirits that jump out of the water to destroy!

			We bind the hippopotamus spirit

			We bind every adversary spirit, every wicked and accusing spirit!

			We cast them down in the name of Jesus!

			Again I say unto you, That if two of you shall agree on earth as touching anything that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 18:19

			We agree together that the work of Satan against ark building is bound in Jesus’ Name!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 9




Prayer for the Spirit of Revelation; Prayer to be an Ark Builder & Prayer for the Nations




		 			I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.

			Revelation 3:18

		 			Prayer for the Spirit of Revelation

			I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.

			Revelation 3:18

			The reality of Christianity is that we have to deal with both good and evil in their mature forms. We must be strong Christians to survive.

			Pray for the Spirit of revelation to be upon you. Pray that the Spirit who opens eyes may be upon you. Pray that the Spirit of dreams and visions should come upon you. Pray for a bright flash of understanding, wisdom and counsel.

			It is revelation like a brilliant flash that makes the difference.

			Get some oil and anoint your eyes. God is going to give you a fresh anointing for revelation. Revelation means to see - just like when the scientist made a discovery and shouted “Eureka”.

			Place the anointing oil on your eyes.

			Thank God for the anointing.

			Father thank You that You are anointing every eye. Take away whatever represents blindness in our lives. Let us experience new sight, be it visions, knowledge or dimensions of wisdom. Thank You, Lord! Reveal unto us what keeps us in darkness and keeps us limited.

			Lift your hands and pray for the Spirit of revelation.

			1.	Pray for the Spirit of revelation of weakness and foolishness.

			I want to give you a revelation. Do you want this revelation? Keep this in your heart as we pray. God will give you understanding.

			There is a “foolishness” that you practice that will overcome the devil and there is a “weakness” that you practice that will overcome the devil. God recommends His weak and foolish things to you because you can use it to overcome the devil. The Cross is the best example: the foolishness and weakness of God is the Cross.

			But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty;

			1 Corinthians 1:27

			There will be a time in your life when you may have to walk like a fool. There will be a time when you may have to walk as though you are weak, but it will actually be stronger than the enemy. That is why sacrifice is so powerful. Humility, which appears weak, destroys Satan. Wives who receive this revelation are the happiest wives.

			Pray for God to reveal the “weak and foolish” things you need to embrace throughout your life and ministry.

			2.	Pray for the Spirit of revelation to see that a man is a gift.

			But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you.

			Philemon 1:22

			Through your prayers a particular person will be given into your life. Paul knew that the “gift” was a man.

			Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men. ...And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers;

			Ephesians 4:8, 11

			Apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors and teachers are men that God has given as a gift. Think about the good people that God has given you in your life, they are gifts. Kenneth Hagin is a gift to me.

			God Gave Me Another Gift

			One morning I was praying and I saw my wife praying. She was listening to Derek Prince and I decided to also listen to him; and as I listened, I realised that God had given me another gift.

			Satan is always trying to throw a smoke screen so that certain gifts will be far away from you.

			Pray for God to reveal to you any man who is a gift in your life.

			3.	Pray for God to reveal to you all that you have to do.

			And Noah did according unto all that the Lord commanded him. And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.

			Genesis 7:5-6

			Noah had six hundred years of doing the will of God. Noah did all that the Lord asked him to do.

			Pray for God to reveal to you all that you have to do. You don’t want to get to heaven and find out there was a part you didn’t do. Pray that God will reveal to you all that you have to do. Lift your hands and pray!

			4.	Pray for God to reveal to you special skills that you need.

			Pray that special skills needed to obey God will be revealed to you.

			And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons’ wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood. Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls, and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth, There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had commanded Noah.

			Genesis 7:7-9

			As you serve God, there are special skills you need to know and have, which will make a big difference in your life and ministry.

			Like Noah, it could be animal-catching skills or even computer skills. Noah was able to know every animal, some were female and some were male. The skill you may need may be to learn a language. It is a skill to pray.

			Lift your hands and thank God for special skills.

			5.	Pray for the Spirit of revelation on survival.

			And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights. And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days.

			Genesis 7:12, 24

			The time of Noah can be likened to a pandemic that affected the whole earth.

			God is giving you the right timing for wherever you have the wrong timing. Whatever crisis you don’t know and understand, God is revealing to you how to survive.

			Father thank You for revealing to Your children the grace for surviving; the grace to survive marital and financial crisis!

			Lord thank You for mercy and grace to escape.

			Pray for yourself and your household, for the revelation of survival. Lord, reveal to me how to survive every storm.

			Lift your hands and thank God that whatever the enemy throws at you, you are surviving by His mighty grace.

			Prayer for Yourself and Your Family to be Ark Builders

			We are going to pray on how you and your family can be ark builders. When you leave a church, your children become confused because they have friends in the church. Children love to be like other children, they don’t like to be the odd ones out. Your children will grow to be rebellious when they see you leave something you were once committed to.

			Noah and all his children were in the ark. You and all your children will remain in the ark as you pray. None of your children will be confused. Many times, children who experience broken homes are not normal.

			Pray that you and your family will be ark builders.

			1. 	Pray against the curse of Ham.

			Pray for God to deliver you from mocking your father. Even if your father is in prison, never mock at your father.

			And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan. These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth overspread. And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard: And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent. And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without. And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father’s nakedness. And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him. And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.

			Genesis 9:18-25

			Everybody in the world comes from either Shem, Ham or Japheth. It is easy for us to do things that can provoke a curse. Many betrayers don’t realize that the effect of treachery or being like Absalom impacts their children in a devastating way. Some of us are children of rebellious people and unknowingly, the issues in our lives are as a result of it.

			2. 	Pray to God that you would not be a mocker.

			If you have been a mocker of your father, ask God to have mercy on you.

			A Bad Example

			One day I was preaching and was going to give an illustration when the Holy Spirit told me “Don’t use your father as a bad example.” The Holy Spirit saved me from being a mocker of my father. We can easily be like Ham.

			3.	Pray that you will be a child that covers rather than a child that exposes and embarrasses.

			 “My father doesn’t pay my school fees, someone else does. He is a useless man”. You can’t go outside and tell people bad things about your father!

			Pray to be a child that covers rather than a child that embarrasses. Pray for the grace to be a covering for your father.

			4.	Pray to never forget what your father has done for you.

			But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord.

			Genesis 6:8

			God didn’t speak to Shem, Ham or Japeth. Noah was the one that found grace in the eyes of the Lord. You may not know that it is your father that has found grace in God’s eyes and you are enjoying that grace. If Noah had not built an ark his children would have drowned.

			...ye all are partakers of my grace.

			Philippians 1:7

			5.	Pray that you never forget how God sees your father.

			For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, ...

			Luke 1:15

			Your father can be great in the eyes of the Lord but maybe not in your eyes. Noah found grace with God and God chose him to build an ark. When you are a child in the house, sometimes you don’t see how great your father is. But God sees your father as great, especially in relation to you. That is why we have to honour our fathers.

			Pray for God to help you to see how great your father is - be it your biological or spiritual father.

			Honour thy father and mother; (which is the first commandment with promise;) That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth.

			Ephesians 6:2-3

			6.	Pray that you will never repay good with evil.

			Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.

			Proverbs 17:13

			7. 	Pray for forgiveness for being a son who repays good with evil.

			8.	Pray that you will never make a move against your father

			Peter betrayed Jesus but Judas organised the arrest of Jesus. That is the difference between Peter and Judas. That is what Absalom did to his father (a betrayal). Ham organised others to come and see his father’s nakedness.

			We are praying that we will never be used or rise up against our fathers.

			9.	Pray to be a blessed child and not a cursed child.

			Pray that you will never be categorised as a cursed son.

			Refuse anything that will make you a cursed son. God is having mercy on us.

			God is a kind God. If all children are meant to be cursed for their rebellion, we wouldn’t be here.

			Pray to be a blessed child and not a cursed child.

				Prayer for the Nations

			1.	Pray for Congo

			2.	Pray for Ethiopia

			3.	Pray for Madagascar

			4.	Pray for the Caribbean Island

			5.	Pray for Ghana

			6.	Pray for Nigeria

			7.	Pray for Ivory Coast

			8.	Pray for the Philippines





CHAPTER 10




Prayer for Strength; Prayer for the Blessings of Abraham & Prayer for the Nations




		 			We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves.

			Romans 15:1

			Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto a land that I will shew thee:

			And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:

			And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.

			Genesis 12:1-3



		 			Prayer for Strength

			1.	Thank God for strength.

			We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves.

			Romans 15:1

			Your strength is shown when you help the weak, not when you discard or reject them. God doesn’t throw away weak things and neither should we. Strong countries look after the weak, the crippled, blind and deaf.

			Lift up your hands and thank God that you are one of the strong helping the weak. Every weak thing in your life will be strengthened.

			A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory.

			Matthew 12:20

			“Kill All the Mentally Ill”

			When Hitler came on the scene, one of the first stances that he took was that the mentally ill were a nuisance to society. Hitler later ordered and signed to have them all killed. This is an example of the strong not bearing the infirmities of the weak. It takes a lot to put up with people’s infirmities.

			What are the types of weaknesses that we have to put up with? Let us start with sin. When someone sins or gets into trouble, your strength is shown by your ability to accommodate the person rather than throw the person away.

			God is making us strong shepherds. People have problems and they are all part of your flock.

			The Strong Pastor

			I once visited a church filled with different types of people. I knew the background of some of these people and I knew they could not be Christians. However, the pastor had all these people in his church, pastors them, and is always preaching to them. It shows you the strength of the shepherd, that he doesn’t only accommodate perfect people.

			Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted.

			Galatians 6:1

			Spiritual people restore those who have faults. Strong armies have hospitals as part of the army to restore the wounded. Doing the work of God does not only include winning new souls but it is also fighting to look after the infirmities of those who are struggling.

			2.	Pray for God to strengthen you.

			3.	Pray for strength to look after those who are in sin.

			4.	Pray for strength to look after those who are messed up.

			5.	Pray for strength to look after those who are sick.

			6.	Pray for strength to look after those who have mental problems.

			7.	Pray for strength to look after those who are spiritually down.

			8.	Pray for strength to look after those who are handicapped.

			9.	Pray for strength to look after those that nobody likes.

			When I meet someone whom no one wants to marry, I always feel sad and want to help the person to get married.

			10.	Pray for strength to become what God wants you to become.

			Prayer for the Blessings of Abraham

			Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree: That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.

			Galatians 3:13-14

			We see the blessings of Abraham in Genesis chapter 12 where the story of Abraham begins.

			1.	Pray for the blessing of separation from sin and wickedness in your family.

			Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto a land that I will shew thee:

			Genesis 12:1

			I believe that every family has some wickedness in it; so one of the first blessings of Abraham is to be separated from your family. You will be shocked to know that murderers, thieves and wicked people were all present in your family line. Anyone who comes from Ghana, and has family living near the castles, the slave trading posts, must have a connection to slave trade. I believe that God first of all separates us from family (and makes us different), and that is why you may hear some people say things like, “A wicked man like your father cannot give birth to an angelic child like you!”

			2.	Pray for Abraham’s blessing to be separated from the wickedness of your household.

			Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

			Romans 5:12

			One of the great blessings is to first come away and separate yourself from your father’s house and your country.

			3.	There are also sins of countries. Pray that you will be separated from the sins and wickedness of your country.

			You may never know what your country has been involved in. God wants to separate you from the bad thing that is in your country, so that it is never associated with you. You may not know the significance of this prayer till the day, when you are trying to get married, it is asked “Where is he from?” The answer to the question “Where is he from?” can immediately cause the answer to your marriage proposal to be “No”. Many times, when you go out to start churches as a missionary and you say that you are from a particular country, there are such negative reactions.

			4.	Pray for Abraham’s blessing to be separated from the wickedness of your country.

			5.	Pray that God will show you the land where you must live.

			Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father’s house, unto a land that I will shew thee:

			Genesis 12:1

			6.	Pray for God to show you the particular land, area or country that you should be in. This is the land where you will do well.

			When you don’t pray this type of prayer you can never be a missionary. Abraham’s blessing is, “Leave your country and I will show you were to go.” There are places with people that you don’t know and God says, “I will show you”. The world is full of evil and God says He will separate us. When you are not open to God’s separation, you will be like everyone else in the world.

			7.	Pray that God will make your family a great nation.

			And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:

			Genesis 12:2

			When you see someone who dies and leaves behind children, grandchildren and great grandchildren, it is a great nation.

			You will give birth to great children! Your family and your church family are becoming a great nation!

			8.	Pray for a blessing.

			And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:

			Genesis 12:2

			“I will bless thee.” These are short words; but they have ramifications and implications beyond your imagination.

			9.	Pray for the blessing of a great name.

			And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:

			Genesis 12:2

			Whatever this verse means, let it be so. When your name is mentioned and no one knows who you are, it is quite different from a name that is mentioned and known.

			Lift your hands! People will name their children after you, they will want to be associated with your name.

			10.	Pray to be a blessing.

			And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:

			Genesis 12:2

			When you are a blessing to somebody, that is when you are really strong and blessed. If you have everything in the world and everyone around you does not have anything, how does it help? When you are a selfish person, you are someone who is never happy. The real blessing is when you are able to be a blessing to others.

			Many years ago, I felt the Lord telling me to be a blessing to other churches and that was what gave birth to the Iron Sharpeneth Iron Conference (now Give Thyself Wholly Conference). The Healing Jesus [Evangelistic] Campaigns and the books I have written are a blessing to other churches.

			11.	Pray for the blessing of divine protection.

			And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.

			Genesis 12:3

			The devil and his agents are always looking to attack a good thing but there is a protection God gives.

			Lift your hands and pray for this great protection. Pray for divine protection.

			Prayer for the Nations

			Even them will I bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer: their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted upon mine altar; for mine house shall be called an house of prayer for all people.

			Isaiah 56:7

			Pray that labourers will be sent and that churches will be built. No nation shall be too strong.

			1.	Pray for Vietnam

			2.	Pray for China

			3.	Pray for Russia

			4.	Pray for South Korea

			5.	Pray for North Korea

			6.	Pray for Japan

			7.	Pray for Indonesia

			8.	Pray for the Philippines

			9.	Pray for Malaysia

			10.	Pray for Singapore

			11.	Pray for Cambodia

			12.	Pray for Thailand

			13.	Pray for Myanmar (Burma)

			14.	Pray for Bangladesh

			15.	Pray for India

				Thank God for the sending out of missionaries, thank God that it shall not cease.





CHAPTER 11




Prayer for Light & Prayer to Fulfil Your Ministry




		 			All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men.

			John 1:3-4

			And if ye shall despise my statutes, or if your soul abhor my judgments, so that ye will not do all my commandments, but that ye break my covenant: “I also will do this unto you; I will even appoint over you terror, consumption, and the burning ague, that shall consume the eyes, and cause sorrow of heart: and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.

			Leviticus 26:15 -16



		 			Why did God send punishments? Because the people did not obey or respect His laws.

			Pray for an answer to any questions on your mind. Pray for God to send His answer.

			Prayer for Seven Kinds of Light

			1. 	Pray for the entrance of God’s Word that brings light.

			The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.

			Psalm 119:130

			2. 	Pray for the privilege of receiving a commandment from God that brings light.

			For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life.

			Proverbs 6:23

			3. 	Pray for judgment that brings light. If we do not judge ourselves, we will be judged.

			Therefore, have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are as the light that goeth forth.

			Hosea 6:5

			4. 	Pray for the light of the gospel that brings light.

			In whom the god of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them.

			2 Corinthians 4:4

			5. 	Pray for the light of Jesus that brings life.

			He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light. That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.

			John 1:8-9

			Jesus was the TRUE light that lights everyone.

			6. 	Pray for the light that comes from following Jesus.

			All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men.

			John 1:3-4

			Jesus’ life is a direction for us. Anything that Jesus did is a direction for you. His life is a LIGHT.

			7. 	Pray for the light that comes through God’s servants.

			There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;

			Daniel 5:11

			Prayer to Fulfil Your Ministry

			1.	Pray that your ministry will be fulfilled straight away.

			And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him. And they went into Capernaum; and straightway on the Sabbath day he entered into the synagogue, and taught.

			Mark 1:20-21

			2.	Pray for the clarity of your ministry.

			Pray that God will let you know what you are supposed to do in order to finish your ministry.

			3.	Pray for your apostolic ministry to be fulfilled.

			Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience, in signs, and wonders, and mighty deeds.

			2 Corinthians 12:12

			Four Signs of Your Apostolic Ministry

			1. 	Patience: This means constancy, which means to be the same. You need constancy because constancy brings hardness.

			2. 	Signs: There must be supernatural signs that reveal your apostleship. One of these signs is a financial sign.

			3. 	Mighty deeds: Mighty deeds mean great accomplishments.

			4. 	Miracles: This means an omen.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father, thank You for the Body of Jesus Christ.

			There is no one greater, no one with more light, revelation and direction than You Lord Jesus

			As we come before the Holy Communion, which is the Holy Interaction, we thank You for such a blessing

			Fill us with Your greatness as we partake of the body of Jesus Christ

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			May you be sanctified, cleansed of pollutions, of mistakes and errors

			May you be cleansed of things that connect you to the devil, things that link you to satan’s world

			 When I see the blood I will pass over

			May anything that has targeted you pass over because of the blood, which takes away the sins of the world. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			May the Lord remember you among the many people that are in the world

			May you be remembered

			As you are remembered, may you be lifted out of a dark hole

			The hole of death

			The hole of despair

			May the Lord be your Shepherd

			May He appear at the mouth of the hole

			May He pull you out of the miry clay

			May He wash you!

			May you rest in His loving arms!

			May He place you upon a rock to save!

			The Lord bless you, remember you and pick you from that hole and bless you forever

			I see the Lord pulling you out!

			May you be pulled out!

			May your despair end now by a blessing!

			The blessing of the shepherd comes your way now!

			The Good Shepherd stretches out His hand to you in love

			Receive Him and receive this great blessing in your life!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 12




Prayer for the Holy Spirit; Prayer for the Blessings of Zebedee & Prayer to Bind Demons




		 			If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?

			Luke 11:13

		 			Prayer to be Filled with the Holy Spirit

			1.	Pray for the Spirit of Humility.

			2.	Pray for the Spirit of Holiness.

			3.	Pray for the Spirit of Faith.

			We having the same spirit of faith, according as it is written, I believed, and therefore, have I spoken; we also believe, and therefore, speak;

			2 Corinthians 4:13

			4.	Pray for the Spirit of Wisdom and Revelation.

			5.	Pray for the Spirit of Love.

			Love is patient, love is kind and is not jealous; love does not brag and is not arrogant, does not act unbecomingly; it does not seek its own, is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong suffered, does not rejoice in unrighteousness, but rejoices with the truth; bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things.

			1 Corinthians 13:4-7 (NASB)

			Desiring to be teachers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm.

			1 Timothy 1:7

			Prayer for the Blessings of Zebedee

			And when he had gone a little farther thence, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship mending their nets. And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him.

			Mark 1:19-20

			Seven Aspects of the Zebedee Family Anointing

			1.	Pray to be a wealthy family.

			2.	Pray to be a family that does not resist the ministry.

			3.	Pray to be a family that esteems ministry greater than secular work.

			4.	Pray to be a family where the father and mother support the work of God.

			And many women were there beholding afar off, which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him: Among which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee’s children.

			Matthew 27:55-56

			Within every family, if the father and the mother are not united, the children will also be divided.

			5.	Pray to be a family that has holy ambitions for your children in the ministry.

			Then came to him the mother of Zebedee’s children with her sons, worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him. And he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom.

			Matthew 20:20-21

			6.	Pray to be a family that supports Jesus by traveling with Him.

			Lift your hands and pray that you will be someone who supports Jesus by traveling with Him.

			And many women were there beholding afar off, which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him: Among which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee’s children.

			Matthew 27:55-56

			7. Pray to be a family that supports Jesus in His suffering and even after His death.

			And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they might come and anoint him.

			Mark 16:1

			Everybody wants to be winner, but the people who are with you after you have lost are your real friends.

			Prayer to Bind Demons

			1.	Pray concerning the rooms in your house, the rooms of your mind, your emotions, your prayer life and your devotion to God.

			2.	Pray concerning the rooms of your decisions, your relationships, your health, your destiny, your ministry and your calling.

			3.	Pray and bind any demon that will try and occupy any of these rooms.

			4.	Pray and curse every satanic attack on any of these rooms.

			5.	Pray and block their access, bind demons that want to divert and prevent your destiny.

			Bind every power that is resisting your ministry and calling.

			6.	Pray for the spirit of transparency, the spirit of truth, forgiveness and patience.

			Pray for these spirits.

			7. 	Pray and break every demon that causes lack of truth, patience, forgiveness and transparency.

			8.	Pray to bind the spirit of duplicity, hypocrisy and duality.

			Pray and bind this darkness in your life. Bind the presence of these demons.

			9.	Pray to bind the spirit of disappointment, despair, dysfunction and discouragement.

			Pray for the victory over these demons. The demons of disappointment, despair, dysfunction and disappointment. We bind the power of hopelessness!

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father we come bowing before Your Holy Bread (the body of Jesus Christ)

			Let the greatest blessing be upon Your children as we take Your Body

			Let every disappointment in this life bow

			May despair, hopelessness and discouragement bow

			Let all dysfunctional things give in and give up!

			Let the deteriorations of our life bow!

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Whatever represents evidence against you

			Whatever represents an evil witness against you

			Whatever represents your sins, your mistakes, transgressions, your iniquities

			Because of the blood receive forgiveness and mercy!

			Just as the Egyptians were washed away by the Red Sea, through this blood, whatever stands against you are also washed away by the blood

			Receive the blood of Jesus

			Thank You Father, that You really are in heaven

			We entrust ourselves to You, Lord

			The blood of Jesus speaks for you today! (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Receive power in your life right now!

			Receive the manifestation of power!

			Whatever is missing, find it today

			Whatever is gone out of your hand comes back

			Whatever flees away, returns to you

			May this blessing accompany you today and everyday

			Return to the Lord and you shall receive!

			Seek Him and you shall find Him!

			Draw near to Him and He shall draw near to you!

			For this is the greatest blessing of God: His presence in your life

			Let it never depart from you

			Your sins, your transgressions and your iniquities are washed away by the blood of Jesus

			Be blessed! I bless you with the blessing of the Lord

			May you enjoy His blessing in your life today and forevermore

			Amen.





CHAPTER 13




Prayer for the Ministry of Jesus; Prayer for the Divinely Appointed People for Your Life; Prayer to Bind the Enemy & Prayer for the Tsalach Anointing




		 			And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan; and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.

			Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God,

			And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe the gospel.

			Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.

			Mark 1:13-16

		 			Prayer for the Ministry of Jesus

			There is therefore, now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. ...For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.

			Romans 8:1, 6

			John’s death was a trigger for Jesus’s ministry to begin. In every event you must see the supernatural side. What event is triggering something supernatural for you? What spiritual triggers are happening in your life?

			Lord, help us to be spiritually minded because spiritual-mindedness is life and peace.

			1.	Pray for the Spirit of revelation, for spiritual understanding about what is happening.

			Help me to be spiritually minded Lord!

			a)	Father, give me the Spirit of revelation to understand the events that are happening around me.

			b)	Father, give me the Spirit of revelation to understand the events happening in my life.

			c)	Father, give me the Spirit of revelation to understand the events happening in the world now.

			2. 	Pray about the time to fulfil these four things. Do we believe that Jesus is the centre and the main thing? When you don’t know what to do, look at Jesus.

			And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe the gospel.

			Mark 1:15

			a)		The time is fulfilled.

			b)		The kingdom of God is at hand.

			c)		Repent or change - The things I used to do, I do them 		no more.

			d)		Believe the gospel.

			Prayer That You Will Meet All Your Divinely Appointed People

			We will not accomplish what we are supposed to accomplish without certain people. These people are connected to our destinies. They are destiny changers.

			Pray that whoever God has chosen for your destiny would be found.

				Father, guide me to meet my divinely appointed people.

			Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.

			Mark 1:16

			The people we meet are very critical to our lives and ministry. There are certain people you meet in your life who are divinely appointed people. God wants you to meet these people the way Jesus met Simon Peter and his brother, Andrew.

			7 Divinely Appointed People in Your Life

			i.		Your divinely appointed friends in your life

			ii.		Your divinely appointed pastors in your life

			iii.		Your divinely appointed prophets in your life

			iv.		Your divinely appointed wife or husband in your life

			v.		Your divinely appointed disciples and followers in your 		life

			vi.		Your divinely appointed helpers in your life

			vii.	Your divinely appointed pillars of your life - these are 		solid pillars for your life

			Who is in your life right now?

			3. 	 Pray concerning your Simon and Andrew. Andrew is the “manly” person in your life.

			Pray that you will meet your “Andrew(s)”.

			One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, saith unto him, There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many?

			John 6:8-9

			a.	Andrew is a strong man.

			b.	Andrew is a man of discipline.

			c.	Andrew is a practical man.

			d.	Andrew is a problem solver.

			e.	Andrew introduces people to Jesus.

			He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ. And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone.

			John 1:41-42

			4.	Pray for someone who will bring you closer to Jesus.

			Pray that you will meet your Andrew, who will bring you closer to Jesus.

			And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast: The same came therefore, to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus. Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus.

			John 12:20-22

			5.	Pray for 7 things that will make people choose you (the way Peter was chosen).

			i.	Pray for the anointing of Peter.

			ii.	Pray that you will be someone who is good company.

			iii.	Pray that you will be someone who can be disciplined or rebuked without apology.

			iv.	Pray that you will become like Peter, someone who is ready to try new things.

			But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water.

			Matthew 14:27-28

			v.	Pray that you will be someone who flows and is obedient.

			Notwithstanding, lest we should offend them, go thou to the sea, and cast an hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up; and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money: that take, and give unto them for me and thee.

			Matthew 17:27

			vi.	Pray that you will be someone who sees things in the right way.

			When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?

			And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremiah, or one of the prophets.

			He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?

			And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.

			Matthew 16:13-16

			vii.	Pray that you will be someone, who is eager, determined, and loving in spite of your mistakes.

			Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended.

			Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this night, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.

			Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee.

			Likewise also said all the disciples.

			Matthew 26:33-35

			Prayer to Bind the Enemy

			1. 	Pray and bind every demonic association in your life that will not allow you to be connected to your Andrew and your Peter.

			I renounce my associations that are negative. I cancel associations that will affect my destiny negatively

			2. 	Pray and release your spirit, soul and mind from any evil association in your life.

			3. 	Pray and abolish any covenant you have entered knowingly and unknowingly.

			4. 	Pray and bind the spirit of stealing, killing and destroying of your life and destiny.

			5. 	Pray and block any access point into your life.

			6. 	Pray and bind premature death.

			7. 	Pray and bind the spirit of fear.

			•	The fear of the unknown.

			•	The fear of the future.

			•	The fear of death.

			Prayer for the Tsalach Anointing

			Take some oil and put it on your head.

			 				You will break out!

				You will push forward!

				You will go over!

				You will overcome!

				You will TSALACH in the name of Jesus!



			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father we come before Your Word - the bread, the body of Jesus; this is a great honour

			As we partake of the body of Jesus Christ, let every good thing, especially health, healing and the normalcy of all things enter us and become part of us

			We remember You Jesus, as we receive Your body

			Thank You that Your presence is here because we receive You

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Let healing and forgiveness be applied to you

			May the memories of your mistakes, the evidence of your mistakes, your weaknesses and accusers be silenced because of this blood

			Through this blood you are made acceptable and you are accepted in the Beloved

			Receive acceptance!

			The blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Let the grace of Andrew be upon you!

			May you find the Andrew(s) and the Simon(s) of your life!

			May you find those who see you in the right way, those who understand you, those who flow with you! May you locate them today! I bless you with these findings in your life!

			As the anointing is upon you, you will find what you’ve never found!

			The Lord bless you and cause you to push forward

			The Lord cause you to come forth mightily!

			May you go over the mark that has been set! Go over the barriers and the limitations!

			You are going over now the lines that have been drawn to keep you out!

			The Lord keep thee

			The Lord make His face shine and be gracious and forgiving to you

			The Lord lift up His countenance upon you

			The Lord be pleased with you

			Even in the anger of the Lord, may it turn around and may He be pleased with you.

			The Lord give you peace where there’s no peace

			Calmness where there’s no calmness

			The Lord comes upon you mightily!

			You are going over whatever seemed impossible!

			Receive the blessings of the Lord.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 14




Prayer to Become a Beloved Son & Prayer against Temptation




		 			And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.

			And immediately the spirit driveth him into the wilderness.

			And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan; and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.

			Mark 1:11-13



		 			Prayer to Become a Beloved Son

			1.	Pray for grace and mercy to become a true, beloved son.

			Jesus is the way to become a beloved son - look unto Jesus.

			1.	You will find the WAY from Jesus

			2.	You will find the TRUTH from Jesus

			3.	You will find the LIGHT from Jesus

			And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.

			Mark 1:11

			Seven Steps to Becoming a Beloved Son

			i.	Pray that you will be humbled so that you will be a beloved son.

			ii.	Pray that you will accept not to be known so that you will be a beloved son.

			iii.	Pray that you will be submitted to God.

			iv.	Pray that you will be into baptism; ie going deep into things. None of the minor and major Prophets was into baptism but Jesus was into baptism.

			v.	Pray that you will be respectful to your man of God so that you will be a beloved son.

				Respect the person that God has put in front of you.

				Respect depends on your culture because you may be “culturally” respectful but not genuinely respectful. Therefore, pray to become genuinely respectful.

			vi.	Pray that you will be a missionary so that you will be a beloved son.

			vii. Pray that you will be led by the Spirit so that you can be a 	 beloved son.

				There is one point in the points above that is especially for you. Identify it and pray about it.

			2. 	Pray for the Spirit of revelation to become a beloved son.

			We need the Spirit of revelation to reveal things to us. We need the Spirit of revelation to become beloved sons. Once you have been a traitor, it is not easy to be accepted.

			There is a principle in law - “you ought to have known” - that can be used to charge you for crime. “You ought to have known” all these points that make you beloved son. Therefore, pray for the Spirit of revelation so that when any of these points are happening, you will notice them.

			Deploying Matthew 18:19 in Prayer

			When you are praying, there are times that you have to deploy Matthew 18:19:

			Again I say unto you, That if two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 18:19

			3. 	Pray and agree with somebody so that you will become a beloved son.

			Lord help me to become a beloved son.

			Prayer against the Spirit of Temptation

			 The devil is the one behind temptations. The devil will test us against everything God wants to do with our lives.

			Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil.

			Matthew 4:1

			1.	Pray and bind the spirit of temptation that tests you to see if you can do what you say you can do.

			2.	Pray for immediate demolition of satanic structures and obstacles to test your calling and your life.

				I demand immediate demolition of satanic structures and obstacles. I bind anything designed to test my strength and commitment.

			3.	Pray and bind the spirit of temptation that wants to prove to you that you are of a low quality.

				Satan is all out to declare you as not good enough to do what you have said you want to do. Therefore, pray against this trial to test you to see if you are good enough to do what you want to do for God. Bind this spirit of temptation.

			4.	Pray and bind the spirit of temptation that makes you think in a bad way.

			And as he said these things unto them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to urge him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of many things: Laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth, that they might accuse him.

			Luke 11:53-54

			5.	Pray against any power to make you think in bad way.

			6.	Pray and bind the spirit of temptation that tries you to see how you will behave yourself.

			7.	Pray and bind the demon that follows you to say “Aha”.

			Also, thou son of man, prophesy unto the mountains of Israel, and say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord: Thus saith the Lord God; Because the enemy hath said against you, Aha, even the ancient high places are ours in possession:

			Ezekiel 36:1-2

			And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first day of the month, that the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, because that Tyrus hath said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is broken that was the gates of the people: she is turned unto me: I shall be replenished, now she is laid waste:

			Ezekiel 26:1-2

			8.	Pray and bind the spirit of temptation that puts a test to your feelings (hatred, anger, lust, wickedness, etc.)

				I clear the atmosphere around me for anything that causes hatred, lust, anger wickedness in the name of Jesus!

			9.	Pray and bind the spirit of temptation that puts to test your judgment. Bind the demon that maliciously mocks you AFTER you have taken your decision.

				I declare my feet shall not enter into evil decisions!

				I declare that the right decisions would be taken!

				I bind the spirit that tries to influence me to take the wrong option or decision!

			10.	Pray and bind the spirit of craftiness. Craftiness means to be skillful in deceiving. You will never know that you are being manipulated. Financially, mortgages are the schemes of banks that deceive many people and it is very crafty.

				I release myself from deceptions and manipulations!

				I cleanse my heart, my mind from demonic craftiness in the name of Jesus.

				I renounce all satanic craftiness!

				I retreat from it!

				I escape from all demonic entanglement!

				I escape from every financial pit into which I have fallen!

			11.	Pray and bind the spirit of manipulation.

			12.	Pray and bind the spirit of infiltration and encroachment.

				Today marks the end of every satanic infiltration and encroachment!

				We bind satanic infiltrations on our lands.

				We bind satanic encroachment on our lands and we sack all infiltrations and encroachments on our land.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			We partake of the life of Jesus

			This life was manifested to us in flesh

			Lord, as we receive this life, let the good decisions of this life, the blessedness of this life of Jesus, be part of our lives

			We honour Your body, and we honour Your name

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			The blood that speaks better things is the same blood that covers your sins.

			It washes away your grievous mistakes

			Receive of the blood, forgiveness, cleansing, sanctification washing, and regeneration

			The blood of Jesus Christ. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Marvelous things are taking place in your life!

			May a marvelous blessing approach you with bright lights!

			Receive the marvelous help from God!

			Receive a marvelous rescue of the Lord!

			Whatever is a tormenting and plaguing issue of concern in

			your life be healed of it now in the name of Jesus!

			Receive help from God!

			The Lord bless thee

			The Lord bless all that are my children

			The Lord keep thee

			The Lord make His face shine

			The Lord be pleased with you, and be gracious unto you

			The Lord lift up His countenance, reverse His anger, and change His mind that was negative about you

			The Lord give you peace on every tormenting turmoil in your life

			The Lord give you peace and help you

			I bless all my children that You have given to me

			Bless them, help them, and remember them

			Let their eyes be bright, filled with joy

			Let their faces shine with joy at the good works and the help You have given to them

			Thank you, Lord, in Jesus’s name.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 15




Prayer to Believe in the Lord and His Prophets & Prayer to Stop the Devil in His Tracks




		 			 And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem; Believe in the Lord your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper.

			2 Chronicles 20:20



		 			We must have the character of Jesus, where we like to help others.

			1.	 Pray to be a beloved Son like Jesus.

			And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.

			Mark 1:11

			2.	Pray for God to help you to be more like Jesus.

			3.	Pray that God will make you His beloved son. (See Chapter 14). You will have whatever characteristics made Jesus a beloved son. Pray!

			What is your mission for your life? Take a pen and write down your personal mission now.

			4. 	Pray for your sins.

			Pray and confess your sin of pride and lust.

			Prayer to Believe in the Lord Your God and His Prophets

			Prayer to Tsalach

			And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem; Believe in the Lord your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper.

			2 Chronicles 20:20

			Tsalach means: To break out or to push forward.

			1.	Pray that you will believe in the Lord thy God, and also believe in His Prophets.

			Forgive us Lord for not believing in You and the Prophets 	 that You give to us.

			Forgive us for not believing in the prophetic direction.

			Grant us the grace to believe in Your servants so that we shall prosper.

			Father, help me to experience a prosperous ministry and a prosperous life.

			Prayer to Bind the Devil; Prayer to Stop the Devil in His Tracks!

			1. 	Pray to bind all forms of temptations and tests of the devil. Joseph would have been perceived as an actor to Potiphar if he had slept with Potiphar’s wife.

			In the meantime, when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trode one upon another, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.

			Luke 12:1

			The “leaven of the Pharisees” is the double life or the hypocritical life. It is called “doubleness” or duplicity.

			a. Bind the demon of duplicity.

			b. Bind the demon that turns you into an actor.

			c. Bind the demon of doubleness.

			d. Bind the of sustained form of deception.

			e. Pray and bind all demons of hypocrisy.

			f. Pray and bind the demon of pretence.

			2. 	Bind the demon of robbery and stealing of destiny. Before Joseph became Prime Minister, the demon of robbery of his destiny came to try to rob and steal his destiny from him.

			Pray and bind the demon of stealing of your destiny.

			The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

			John 10:10

			Destiny means: A predetermined state of your future, ordained by God.

			3.	Pray and bind the spirit of destruction on your destiny.

			The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

			John 10:10

			I declare judgement on all demons against my destiny.

			May every “Potiphar’s wife” die in the name of Jesus!

			Every demonic pathway to my destiny are declared blocked!

			4.	Pray and bind all forms of demonic traps against your life.

			Pray and bind every demonic pathway to your destiny.

			I declare every demonic pathway to my destiny as blocked.

			5.	Pray to dissolve all demonic seeds in you.

			6. 	Pray and come out of all demonic traps of the enemy.

			You are being ejected spiritually from every form of a trap.

			Wisdom is Your Way of Thinking

			There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it: Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.

			Ecclesiastes 9:14-15

			When a trap surrounds you, the way out of it is WISDOM. Keep moving even if the enemy is still attacking you. Choose the weakest and easiest path to pass through. Don’t be moved by insult, ridicules and shame - Never retreating. Never going back.

			7.	Pray for divine escapes: Escapes from satanic castles, escape from satanic traps and escape from demonic “Alcatraz Islands.”

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father as we come before Your table, this is Your Body that was broken for us

			Let this power of Jesus, to provide and to heal, come into every life across the world

			Thank You, Lord

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Marvelous escape!

			The Lord grant you marvelous escapes!

			As you take of this blood, may you escape the Egyptians that are after your life!

			May you be comforted in your sorrow!

			May you be healed of your diseases!

			May you be healed of viruses, pandemics, curses, cancers, diagnoses and fears!

			May you be healed of fears of tomorrow!

			Fears of the unknown

			By the blood of the Lamb that speaketh better things than the blood of Abel.

			May you escape!

			May you escape the hand of the wicked one, the hand of the evil one, the hand of the accuser, the hand of the tempter and the hand of the destroyer!

			By the blood of the Lamb, receive your healing and divine rescue from the clutches of traps from the works of darkness!

			The blood, it speaketh victory, it speaketh healing, it speaketh rescue!

			 Thank you!

			The blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			May you hear good news and not bad news!

			May you hear good tidings, and not evil tidings!

			May you go forward, not backward!

			May you push forward, not backward!

			May you go over the river, over the blockade, over the roadblocks and over the satanic hindrances of your life!

			Receive divine victories!

			Receive the upper hand!

			Receive the upper hand in every curse and every calamity that surrounds you In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth!

			Be blessed!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 16




Praying with Jesus - Prayer for the Spirit to Come Upon You Like a Dove & Prayer to Bind the Devils that are Following You




And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan. And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him:

			Mark 1:9-10

		 			Prayer for the Holy Spirit to Come Upon You Like a Dove

			1. 	Pray for the Holy Spirit like a dove, to descend upon you. A person takes on the characteristic of the spirit that influences him.

			And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake; and the people wondered.

			Luke 11:14

			If we pray for the Spirit of holiness, we will become holy. It is a bad spirit in us that would makes us rebellious towards authority. It is a bad spirit that would make you see a good person as a hard man.

			Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed:

			Matthew 25:24

			How is it that two servants in the story in Matthew 25 didn’t see their master as a hard man? It is simply because they did not have a rebellious spirit.

			Father give me the Holy Spirit. Let Him come upon my life. Let Him come upon my ministry. Help us to understand why we need the Holy Spirit. Father, help me.

			2. Pray for the Spirit of holiness.

			And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead:

			Romans 1:4

			What do you want to declare? Declare to be holy today.

			Pray for the Spirit of holiness, to make us holy.

			What Can Be on Us that Will Not Make the Dove Come Upon Us?

			And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, This shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations. Upon man’s flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, and it shall be holy unto you.

			Exodus 30:31-32

			The anointing cannot be poured on the “flesh”. The anointing does not like certain things. Galatians 5:19-21 lists things which prevent the anointing from landing on us.

			Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.

			Galatians 5:19-21

			Prayer Concerning Seventeen Things that Frighten the Dove (The Holy Spirit) from Your Life

			1. 	Adultery

			Every desire for somebody’s husband or wife must die in you.

			Pray that you will overcome ADULTERY in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			2. 	Fornication

			Pray that you will overcome FORNICATION in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			3. 	Uncleanness

			Pray that you will overcome UNCLEANNESS in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			4. 	Lasciviousness

			Pray that you will overcome LASCIVIOUSNESS in your life because it frightens the Dove. Pray for all these things to go out of your life.

			5. 	Idolatry

			Note that anything can become too precious to you and it can become an idol in your life.

			Pray that you will overcome IDOLATRY in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			6. 	Witchcraft

			Pray that you will overcome WITCHCRAFT in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			7. 	Hatred

			Pray that you will overcome HATRED in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			8. 	Variance

			Pray that you will overcome VARIANCE in your life because it frightens the Dove. Variance is quarrelsomeness.

			9. 	Emulations

			Pray that you will overcome EMULATIONS in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			Emulation is contentious rivalry, factions, groups, etc. These things do not make the church grow. You also do not do well in life because you don’t know where your divine helper will come from.

			10. 	Wrath

			Pray that you will overcome WRATH in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			11. Strife

			Pray that you will overcome STRIFE in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			12. Seditions

			Pray that you will overcome SEDITIONS in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			13. Heresies

			Pray that you will overcome HERESIES in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			14. Envyings

			Pray that you will overcome ENVYINGS in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			15. Murders

			Pray that you will overcome MURDERS in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			16. Drunkenness

			Pray that you will overcome DRUNKENNESS in your life because it frightens the Dove.

			17. 	Revellings

			Pray that you will overcome REVELLINGS in your life that frighten the Dove.

			Today marks the end of anything that drives away the anointing!

			Prayer to Bind the Devils that are Following You

			Name and bind the devils that are following you.

			Declare judgment upon them and cast them out. It may be procrastination, it may be poverty, it may be saying and confessing negative things. It may be near-success syndrome, it may be laziness, it may be the spirit of whoredoms, or it may be the spirit of divorce.

			They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known the Lord.

			Hosea 5:4

			Neither give place to the devil.

			Ephesians 4:27

			 				Pray and break every demonic attachment to your life.

				Pray and block all access points to your life and your home.

				Pray and renounce all permissions that you have granted the enemy in your life. Renounce all those permissions.



				Pray and bind demons of secrecy and deception that make you a pretender.

				Pray and bind the spirit of hypocrisy. Hypocrite means actor.

				Pray and bind the spirit of poverty.



			Continuous struggle for financial resource or financial hardship - I release it from my life!

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father we lift up before You the holy bread that symbolizes the death of Christ

			Lord, if You had not come to die for us, we would have no way to explain ourselves and our sins

			Our sins and mistakes stand against us

			They are evidence against us; but through the eternal sacrifice of the Cross, payment has been made for the things we have done and those that we will do

			We kneel before Your holy bread

			As we receive the body of Christ may we receive mercy and healing to our bodies

			Whatever could not be found in Christ cannot be found in us

			Thank You that through this bread

			The manifestation of healing and deliverance comes to us now!

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			By this blood, your mistakes that are standing against you, as evidence of why you should go to prison

			Evidence why you should be condemned

			Evidence why you should not be included

			Evidence why you should be excluded

			Evidence for your guilt

			The cup of blessing comes with this great blessing - all evidence against you is wiped out

			The blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			May the Lord bless you for the prayers you have prayed!

			Whatever your need, that you have not prayed for, may it be given to you today!

			May it be added to you now; I pray for it now!

			Father remember everyone who has prayed, not according to their personal needs, but as the Spirit has led us

			Father answer their pertinent problems and needs

			Meet every need and bless every child.

			Thank You for cars, houses, food, supplies, answers, beloveds, husbands, wives, peace, children and love

			The Lord bless thee, keep thee and make His face shine upon thee

			May the Lord change His face towards you, from a face of disfavour to a smile and give you peace

			Receive peace where there is no peace, and help where no one can help you

			May there be an additional force of angels sent into your situation to rescue and help you

			I declare divine protection on you, protection from calamities protection from sudden deaths!

			I declare protection from evil!

			Protection from sickness!

			Protection from admission to hospitals!

			Protection from ventilators!

			Protection from all forms of life-threatening conditions!

			Receive help from God!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 17





Prayer for Guidance; Prayer for the Ability to be Impressed; Prayer to Bind Devils & Prayer for the Shield of Faith




And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins.

			Mark 1:5

		 			 		 			Prayer that God Will Guide You on Whatever Journey You are Supposed to Make

			Father, guide me like You guided Jesus to where the anointing was.

			Seven Things You Need for the Journey to Baptism

			And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.

			Mark 1:9

			1. 	Pray to have SPIRITUAL RECOGNITION of men. Don’t wait to lose a person before you recognize who he is.

			Ten People You Must be able to Recognize

			a.		You must be able to recognize an anointed person.

			b.		You must be able to recognize a wise person.

			c.		You must recognize a prophet.

			d.		You must be able to recognize a saviour.

			e.		You must be able to recognize a destroyer.

			f.		You must be able to recognize a thief.

			Receive us; we have wronged no man, we have corrupted no man, we have defrauded no man.

			2 Corinthians 7:2

			g.		You must be able to recognize a liar.

			A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.

			Proverbs 26:28

			h.		You must be able to recognize an accuser.

			i.		You must be able to recognize a traitor.

			j.		You must be able to recognize a lover.

			2.	Pray to have SPIRITUAL HUMILITY on the journey to baptism.

			And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.

			Mark 1:9

			3.	Pray to PHYSICALLY RECOGNIZE SPIRITUAL locations. Jesus recognized geographical locations. It is not every place that you can offer a spiritual sacrifice. You should know that some places are defiled.

			Take heed to thyself that thou offer not thy burnt offerings in every place that thou seest: But in the place which the Lord shall choose in one of thy tribes, there thou shalt offer thy burnt offerings, and there thou shalt do all that I command thee.

			Deuteronomy 12:13-14

			And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.

			Revelation 11:8

			We can easily fall, spiritually, at certain locations.

			And the land is defiled: therefore, I do visit the iniquity thereof upon it, and the land itself vomiteth out her inhabitants... (For all these abominations have the men of the land done, which were before you, and the land is defiled;) That the land spue not you out also, when ye defile it, as it spued out the nations that were before you.

			Leviticus 18:25, 27-28

			There are differences in places. Therefore, pray that you can physically recognize spiritual places.

			4.	Pray concerning where you live or where to live. Happiness does not depend on where we live.

			Pray for God to guide you concerning where to live.

			And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.

			Luke 9:58

			5.	Pray that you will not be fixated to any particular place. Rather pray for God to guide you to the place He wants you to live.

			Father, lead me to the place where you want me to live. Lead me Lord!

			6.	Pray to OVERCOME SPIRITUAL LAZINESS.

			Pray against all forms of laziness, pray for spiritual energy.

			Father, give me spiritual energy to overcome spiritual laziness.

			7.	Pray to have SPIRITUAL RESPECT for your journey to baptism. What you respect and honour will come to you. Respect means your esteem for something. Respect means a sense of worth for something. Jesus went to Jordan only to be baptized. He walked all the way from Nazareth to the Jordan river just for John to baptize him. Look at Jesus and know what to do next.

			Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.

			Psalm 40:4

			Prayer to Have the Ability to be Impressed

			Pray to have the ability to be easily impressed.

			We must be impressed by things like the Flow Prayer Meetings and the Unity Services1.

			And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. They answered him, We be Abraham’s seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free?

			Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin. And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but the Son abideth ever. If the Son therefore, shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. I know that ye are Abraham’s seed; but ye seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you. I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and ye do that which ye have seen with your father.

			They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham’s children, ye would do the works of Abraham. But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham. Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication; we have one Father, even God.

			Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came from God; neither came I of myself, but he sent me. Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear my word.

			Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him.

			1 United Denominations early morning prayer meetings and special church sevices. United Denominations is a church founded by the author, Bishop Dag Heward-Mills with over 3000 churches worldwide.

			When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it. And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not.

			Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me? He that is of God heareth God’s words: ye therefore, hear them not, because ye are not of God.

			Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil? Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me. And I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth.

			Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death. Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste of death. Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself?

			Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God: Yet ye have not known him;

			but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you: but I know him, and keep his saying. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it, and was glad.

			Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham? Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am.

			John 8:32-58

			Prayer to Bind Devils

			And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake; and the people wondered.

			Luke 11:14

			Devils make you into what they are.

			1.	Pray to bind lying spirits. This means somebody lying to you or you becoming a liar.

			Pray and bind any lying spirit in your life.

			We arrest and overturn every lying spirit. Every pit that has been dug for me to fall in is closed now. Every stone and arrow that is being thrown at me is boomeranging back to the sender.

			2.	Pray against unclean spirits. Unclean spirits make us unholy, improper and filthy.

			Therefore, pray and bind any unclean spirit.

			I revoke their activity, I banish them from my life forever, and I invoke the Holy Spirit to be supreme in my life.

			3.	Pray for your house and where you dwell.

			Pray and banish any entity that is trying to dwell with you. Walk around in the house and pray. Pray against every defilement of the land.

			4.	Pray to cleanse yourself.

			Pray and dust yourself from all of forms of defilement and contacts.

			I declare permanent deliverance from any of form of evil spirits.

			5.	Pray against any Spiritual Identification Method used to locate and harass you.

			Receive us; we have wronged no man, we have corrupted no man, we have defrauded no man.

			2 Corinthians 7:2

			6.	Pray and come out of any form of corruption that has corrupted you.

			Every repeated attack is stopped today. The link is broken! Every trap is burnt today by the fire of the Holy Spirit. Every form of demonic identification has ended today.

			Prayer for the Shield of Faith

			Pray for the shield of faith to block the fiery darts of the wicked.

			Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.

			Ephesians 6:16

			Faith is obedience and obedience is faith. Therefore, pray for the shield of obedience to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.

			Father, hide me behind the shield of faith.

			Communion Prayer

			Today’s communion is special because the Egyptians that we see today are going to drown in the Red Sea!

			The Bread

			Father, thank You for this bread, Your body

			We kneel before Your body because we believe there is power in the body of Christ

			Thank You for healing in our bodies, in our knees, legs, eyes, chests

			Every strange pain, unusual difficulty, and strange feeling in our body is banished as we take this Holy Communion

			We believe that this is Your body, and we receive Your healing today

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			This is the end of whatever is following you persistently

			The Bible says “By faith they passed through the red sea”, and that was the end of the Egyptians

			 Today, as we lift up this red blood, we declare that this is the blood of Jesus

			This is the end of the enemy in our lives!

			The stealer!

			The destroyer!

			The thief!

			The liar!

			The killer!

			We say this is the end of him in our lives!

			By this we erase the effects of our mistakes!

			Let the fruits of our mistakes be wiped out by the blood of the Lamb that takes away the sins of the world

			The blood of Jesus Christ. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Be blessed!

			Be healed!

			Be comforted!

			Whatever form of stress that is in your life is eased!

			Be healed of confusion and turmoil!

			I knock the head of the crocodile which has gripped you in his mouth!

			I knock the head of the cobra, which has gripped you!

			I rebuke every power that says I will never let you go

			I say, let the people go now!

			Be free from evil powers, evil entanglements, evil connections, and all forms of defilement

			You will never be identified again by devils!

			You will never be located again for the same attack, in the name of Jesus!

			I request for additional angelic support for the battles ahead and the battle today

			I request for additional angels to be sent across the world!

			Save Your people Lord, by a Mighty Hand!

			Save them by angels!

			Superior, supernatural, powerful angels across the world! Deploy them Lord, release them, myriads of angels!

			For Jesus said “I could ask my Father, and he would give me twelve legions of angels”

			We pray for legions of angels to be released now across the world!

			Thanks for Your blessing, power, healing, and presence

			We give You praise!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 18




Prayer to Give Thanks; Prayer Concerning Sins; & Prayer Concerning our Lord Jesus Christ’s Ministry - Signs and Types of Baptism




The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins.

			And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins. And John was clothed with camel’s hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he did eat locusts and wild honey;

			And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.

			Mark 1:3-8

		 			 		 			Prayer to Give Thanks

			Give thanks to God before you start praying about the ministry of our Lord Jesus Christ. Give thanks for His mighty acts.

			Thank You Lord for Your mighty acts.

			Prayer Concerning Your Sins

			Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.

			Psalm 106:43

			This is the way to be in ministry. The way is to pray concerning your sins.

			1.	Pray about your sins, confess your sins.

			2.	Pray about your iniquities, confess your iniquities. What three iniquities can you identify in your life?

			3.	Pray about your transgressions, confess your transgressions.

			4.	Pray and confess your sins and debts.

			5.	Pray about your sins so that you will not be brought low according to Psalm 106:43.

			Identify ten tendencies in your life that must end. It may be a tendency to steal, a tendency towards sexual perversions or a tendency towards lying.

			Psalm 46:43 says they were brought low for their iniquities (tendencies). “Tendency” means you have not done it yet, but it is in you. Our tendencies can end our lives.

			Pray specifically about three iniquities in your life and ask God to forgive you.

			Purge me of my iniquities so that I will not be brought low. Deliver me a Lord, forgive me Lord and have mercy on me Lord!

			Prayer Concerning Our Lord Jesus Christ’s Ministry

			The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins.

			And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins. And John was clothed with camel’s hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he did eat locusts and wild honey;

			And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose. I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.

			Mark 1:3-8

			Six Signs that Show that You Believe in Baptism

			Baptism means you are entering into something wholly and totally.

			Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all.

			1 Timothy 4:15

			It means:

			a.	To do something that is evident to all.

			b.	To do something that makes you go deeper.

			c.	To do something that you have to die for.

			d.	To do something that shows on the outward.

			e.	To do something that is humbling.

			f.	To do something that requires you to trust others.

			Six Types of Baptisms

			1. 	Baptism of repentance from sins

			This means to make a U-turn. You move away completely from sin, this is WHOLE repentance.

			Seven Signs That Show I Believe in the Baptism of Repentance

			a.	I have entered into righteousness wholly.

			b.	I do righteousness that is evident to all.

			c.	I go deeper into righteousness.

			d.	Something dies in me.

			e.	I do righteousness that shows on the outside.

			f.	I am prepared to do something that is humbling.

			g.	I do something that shows that I trust others.

			2.	Baptism into Jesus Christ

			Seven Signs That Show I Believe in Baptism into Christ

			a.	I have entered into Christ wholly.

			b.	My service to Christ is evident to all.

			c.	I go deeper into Christ.

			d.	Something dies in me for Christ to be in me.

			e.	The Christ in me shows on the outside.

			f.	I am prepared to do something that is humbling to be in Christ.

			g.	I do something that shows that I trust others in Christ.

			3.	Baptism into Ministry

			Seven Signs That Show I Believe in Baptism into Ministry

			But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They say unto him, We are able. And he saith unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with: but to sit on my right hand, and on my left, is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father.

			Matthew 20:22-23

			a.	I have entered into the ministry wholly.

			b. 	My Ministry is evident to all.

			c. 	I go deeper into the ministry.

			d. 	Something dies in me for me to be in ministry.

			e. 	My baptism into the ministry shows on the outside.

			f. 	I am prepared to do something that is humbling to be in ministry.

			g.	I do things that show that I trust others in the ministry.

			4. 	Baptism into a man of God

			And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;

			1 Corinthians 10:2

			Seven Signs that Show I believe in Baptism into a Man of God

			a.	I have entered into my man of God wholly.

			b.	My service to my man of God is evident to all.

			c.	I go deeper into my man of God.

			d.	Something dies in me for me to be baptized into the man of God.

			e.	My baptism into my man of God shows on the outside.

			f.	I am prepared to do something that is humbling.

			g.	I do things that show that I trust my man of God.

			5. 	Baptism into the Holy Ghost

			I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.

			Mark 1:8

			Seven Signs That Show I Believe in Baptism into the Holy Ghost

			a.	I have entered into the Holy Ghost wholly.

			b.	My service in the Holy Ghost is evident to all.

			c.	I go deeper into the Holy Ghost.

			d.	Something dies in me for the Holy Ghost to be in me.

			e.	The Holy Spirit in me shows on the outside.

			f.	I am prepared to do something that is humbling to be baptized in the Holy Ghost.

			g.	I do things that shows that I trust others in the Holy 	Ghost.

			6. 	Baptism into the Body of Christ

			For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit.

			1 Corinthians 12:13

			For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord’s body.

			1 Corinthians 11:29

			Seven Signs That Show I Believe in Baptism into the Body

			a.	I have entered into the Body of Christ wholly.

			b.	My service to the Body of Christ is evident to all.

			c.	I go deeper into the Body of Christ.

			d.	Something dies in me for the Body of Christ to be in me.

			e.	The Body of Christ in me shows on the outside.

			f.	I am prepared to do something that is humbling to be baptized into the Body of Christ.

			g.	I do things that show that I trust the Body of Christ.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father we come before Your throne

			We present this bread

			We say this is the body of Jesus Christ

			Thank you for what You’ve done for us

			Thank You for Your mighty power

			As we take this Holy Communion, we ask for a manifestation of healing, a manifestation of power, and a manifestation of Your mercy

			Let every sickness and disease vanish

			Let every plague and fear disappear

			Lord, only You can save us and our eyes are on You

			No matter the bad news we hear around us, we trust in You for healing and deliverance

			Men will hear and see that You have been kind to us, and saved us from evil

			We give You thanks and we give You praise

			The body of Jesus. (Eat It)

			 The Blood

			Whatever represents your mistake, the biggest mistake of your life, let it be washed by the blood!

			Let it be reversed, neutralized and sanctified by the blood

			Receive the blood of Jesus to bring healing!

			Let your blood be cleansed of cancer cells, viruses, bacteria, parasites, and of every other painful thing!

			The blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessing

			May the Lord keep you and bless you

			I speak the blessings of the anointing upon your life

			May you be changed into another man and transformed

			May you be protected because of the anointing!

			The Lord keep thee

			No tragedy shall afflict you!

			No bad news shall befall you!

			May the Lord make His face shine upon you and be gracious unto you.

			The Lord lift up His face and reverse His anger towards you, and give you peace

			I minister peace to you

			Receive peace, calmness, and tranquillity into your life!

			I command the blessings to rest upon you

			In the name of The Father, The Son, and The Holy Ghost.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 19




Prayer for God’s Help to Honour Genuinely; Prayer for the Fall of Satan; Prayer for Divine Seats & Prayer for Cleansing by the Blood




And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.

			Luke 10:18

		 			 Prayer that God Will Help You to Honour Genuinely

			Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word: But murmured in their tents, and hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord. Therefore, he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness: To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.

			Psalm 106:24-27

			To despise means:

			•	To look down upon

			•	To regard as worthless

			•	To regard as negligible

			He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth me; and he that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me.

			Luke 10:16

			Many people fake respect, especially when they see you and want to carry your Bible or bag. What do we respect and what do we honour?

			Father, have mercy upon Your servant. Please cause me to honour the Prophet You have given me.

			Prayer for Satan to Fall in Our Lives

			And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.

			Luke 10:18

			Pray against any form of the presence of the devil. Whatever represents satan in our lives must fall.

			1.	Pray for the fall of satan as an opposer or adversary. Satan means the grand adversary of man. The presence of the devil at high levels is going to fall down very low as we pray.

			Pray a lot in tongues now because you may not even know how you are being opposed.

				Satan can both be a sudden opposition or a slow, low-grade opposition in our lives.

			Pray against every sudden, high-grade opposition of Satan in your life.

			Pray also against every slow, low-grade, continuous opposition of Satan in your life. Pray!

			2. 	Pray for the fall of satan as an accuser - the fall of sudden, high-grade accusation of satan in your life; the fall of a slow, low-grade, continuous accusation of satan in your life.

			Pray against the presence of satan as a sudden, high-grade, accuser in your life.

			Pray also against the presence of satan as a slow, low-grade continuous, accuser in your life.

			3. 	Pray for the fall of satan as a liar - the fall of sudden, high grade lies of satan in your life; the fall of slow, low grade, continuous lies of satan in your life.

			Pray for low-grade deceptions or lies in your life to fall in your life.

			Pray also for high-grade deceptions or lies to fall in your life.

			Pray for anyone who is lying to you to be cursed. Pray also for anyone who is deceiving you to be cursed.

			Curse the lie to fall and also the agent of the lie to fall. Curseth be the liars and their lies.

			4.	Pray for the fall of satan and the “wiles” of the devil (“wiles” mean tricks or schemes) - the fall of sudden, high-grade schemes of satan in your life; the fall of slow low-grade continuous schemes of satan in your life.

			Pray against sudden schemes of satan in your life.

			Pray against long term low-grade schemes of satan in your life.

			Pray against the fall of schemes and tricks of the devil.

			Pray for both the schemer and the scheme to fall now in the name of Jesus!

			5. 	Pray for the fall of satan as a “weakness” in your life.

			And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God, day and night.

			Revelation 12:10

			Pray for the fall of sudden, high-grade weakness in your life.

			Pray for the fall of a slow, low-grade, continuous weakness in your life.

			Pray against all sudden high-grade of weakness and slow low-grade of weakness of satan in your life.

			Prayer for Your Seven Divine Seats

			Our seats are given spiritually in the spiritual realm and satan does not want us to sit on the seat.

			And round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.

			Revelation 4:4

			And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.

			Revelation 13:2

			1. Pray that your seat in the family will be established.

			And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him: for he loved him as he loved his own soul. Then Jonathan said to David, To morrow is the new moon: and thou shalt be missed, because thy seat will be empty.

			1 Samuel 20:17-18

			David had a seat in Saul’s family. Satan wants to empty our seats so that we will not belong to a certain family anymore.

			Pray that your seat will not be empty in the spiritual family.

			Satan, you are falling now as you seek to destroy my seat!

			2. Pray that your seat among pastors will be established.

			Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts;

			Luke 20:46

			There is a high seat for pastors.

			Pray to occupy the highest seat as a pastor. Reject any destructive plan of Satan to prevent you from sitting on this seat.

			You may have a throne (a seat), but the seat will not be established as David’s throne was established in 2 Samuel chapter 7.

			And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build an house for my name, and I will stablish the throne of his kingdom for ever.

			2 Samuel 7:12-13

			3. Pray that your seat among the bishops will be established.

			This is the highest seat.

			Pray that this highest seat will be established.

			Father, don’t let my seat be empty among the bishops. Please don’t let the highest seat for me be empty.

			4. 	Pray that your seat among great men of God, the prophets, will be established.

			Then spake Jesus to the multitude, and to his disciples, Saying, The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses’ seat:

			Matthew 23:1-2

			Elisha was in the ROOM of the Prophet Elijah. Sometimes a “seat” is called a “room”.

			And Jehu the son of Nimshi shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel: and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel–meholah shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room.

			1 Kings 19:16

			5. Pray for your seat of promotion to be established.

			After these things did king Ahasuerus promote Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes that were with him. And all the king’s servants, that were in the king’s gate, bowed, and reverenced Haman: for the king had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence.

			Esther 3:1-2

			God wants to advance you. Your seat is your greatest promotion.

			Pray that your seat of promotion will be established.

			6. 	Pray that your seat as a king (a leader) will be established.

			And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul’s side, and David’s place was empty.

			1 Samuel 20:25

			Pray concerning your seat as king. Pray concerning your seat as a leader.

			7. 	Pray that your seat under His shadow will be established. This is the shadow seat.

			As the lily among thorns, so is my love among the daughters.

			As the apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste.

			Song of Solomon 2:2-3

			“I sat down under his shadow WITH GREAT DELIGHT.”

			May nobody come and remove you from under that tree that covers you from the elements of this world!

			Prayer for the Blood of Jesus to Cleanse Your Sins

			1.	Pray for forgiveness of sins.

			2.	Pray for your debts, transgressions and iniquities.

			Father, have mercy and forgive me. Whatever represents a mistake and a sin, please forgive me. Please forgive me for the sins committed by my actions and thoughts.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father we come before You with the holy bread

			May we receive Your mighty miraculous healing!

			Healing of cancer, pain, every disease and every prediction and diagnosis of the body

			Crossing 70 years with ease is Your power at work, and we thank You as we approach Your holy table

			We thank You for the body of Jesus Christ

			Heal us and present us with Your mighty power

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Whatever represents a mistake, the blood of Jesus washes your sins away

			Your seat is established because of the blood!

			Satan’s fall is sure because of the blood

			Father I lift the blood of Jesus before You, and thank You that this drink is the blood of Jesus

			Thank You for total healing and recovery from every strange disease

			Every mystery illness, every frightening and fearful thought, every depression and anxiety, every sleeplessness and every curse that has come to your house, is dispelled because of the blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			The Lord bless you, help you, and guide you continually

			I predict a new light begins to shine in your darkness

			Receive a new light in your darkness

			The Lord shall guide you continually

			The Lord make His face shine upon you, look favourably on you, look smilingly at you, and happily at you!

			The Lord, be gracious unto you

			May the Lord lift up His countenance

			Let His anger and disapproval be turned away

			Let His wrath be redirected!

			May He smile on you and give you peace

			Receive peace in your troubled waters

			Receive the peace of God!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 20




Prayer for the Spirit of Truth & Prayer for Pleasant Lands




		 			And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.

			Luke 10:18

		 			Prayer for the Spirit of Truth

			Truth is very difficult to accept. Pray that truth will be part of you.

			Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.

			John 14:17

			The Greatest Secret About Our Liberty

			And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.

			John 8:32

			God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do it? or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good?

			Numbers 23:19

			If God is not a man that He should lie, then the main characteristic of men is to lie. Knowing the truth and telling yourself the truth will help you to advance tremendously. God sets us free by we telling ourselves the truth.

			So, what is the truth about you and I?

			Father, give me the Spirit of truth.

			Eighteen Truths About Yourself

			This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,

			2 Timothy 3:1-2

			1.	Pray about the truth of being a lover of yourself.

			2.	Pray about the truth of being covetous.

			3.	Pray about the truth of being a boaster.

			4.	Pray about the truth of being proud.

			5.	Pray about the truth of being a blasphemer.

			6.	Pray about the truth of being disobedient to your parents.

			7.	Pray about the truth of being unthankful.

			8.	Pray about the truth of being unholy.

			Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore, God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.

			Psalm 45:7

			Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God; Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away.

			2 Timothy 3:3-5

			9.	Pray about the truth of being without natural affection.

			10.	 Pray about the truth of being a truce breaker.

			11.	 Pray about the truth of being a false accuser.

			12.	 Pray about the truth of being incontinent, this means 	without self-control.

			13.	 Pray about the truth of being fierce (that is, using brutal 	violence).

			14.	 Pray about the truth of being despisers of those that are 	good.

			15.	 Pray about the truth of being traitors.

			16.	 Pray about the truth of being heady.

			17.	 Pray about the truth of being high-minded.

			18.	 Pray about the truth of being lovers of pleasure more 	than lovers of God.

			The Truth Must Be Told to Four People

			1.	You must tell the truth to God.

			2.	You must tell the truth to those you love.

			3.	You must tell the truth to those you want to have a good relationship with.

			4.	You must tell the truth to yourself.

			But speaking the truth in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ:

			Ephesians 4:15

			Pray that you will tell these four people the truth all the time.

			When we start speaking the truth, we start to grow in every aspect of our lives. Truth takes our relationships up and lack of truth takes our relationships down.

			Father, take me up by the Spirit of truth.

			How Does the Truth Help Us?

			And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts: he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them: he clave the rock also, and the waters gushed out.

			Isaiah 48:21

			God’s power leads us through a desert.

			And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth...For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.

			John 1:14, 17

			Once we accept truth, the grace of God will kick in to help us.

			Prayer Concerning Eight Pleasant Lands

			Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word:

			Psalm 106:24

			To despise means:

			•	To look at something with contempt

			•	To look down with disfavour

			•	To scorn

			•	To disdain

			1.	Pray concerning the pleasant land of heaven.

			2.	Pray concerning the pleasant land of your nation.

			And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation;

			Acts 17:26

			Never look down on where you live. Never despise the country that God has placed you in.

			3.	Pray concerning the pleasant land of your church.

			4.	Pray concerning the pleasant place God has given you in relation to God’s servant. (This is your position in relation to God’s servant in your life.)

			And it came to pass, when the Lord would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee; for the Lord hath sent me to Beth–el. And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Beth–el.

			2 Kings 2:1-2

			5.	Pray concerning the pleasant land of your spiritual family.

			Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled; Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright.

			Hebrews 12:15-16

			Pray that you will not despise the spiritual family that God has given to you.

			6.	Pray concerning the pleasant land that comes by prophetic direction.

			And the hand of the Lord was there upon me; and he said unto me, Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will there talk with thee.

			Ezekiel 3:22

			God has a place for us.

			Pray that you will be in the prophetic place that God has chosen for you, and that you would not despise it.

			7.	Pray concerning the pleasant land of the nation of your calling.

			8.	Pray concerning the pleasant land of all nations.

			Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen.

			Matthew 28:19-20

			We must not despise any nation. We must go to all the nations!

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father thank You for the holy bread You give to us

			Let everyone that partakes of this holy bread be blessed!

			We say thank You for healing

			As we partake of the body of Jesus, no plague, no disease, no dark shadow shall come near our dwelling place

			Whatever represents cancer of the prostate, breast, lungs, stomach, oesophagus, kidneys, brain, bone, blood; as we receive this communion it wipes out any disease

			By manifestation of the Cross, you do show the Lord’s death

			Let the Cross drive away the sicknesses, diseases, viruses, and the smell of death

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			As we receive the blood

			Whatever represents the biggest mistake of your life will be wiped away by the blood of Jesus Christ!

			Father we come before the blood

			Wash us because we are dirty, every one of us

			Cleanse us with the blood!

			The blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessing

			May the Lord God bless you and keep you from every sickness and diagnosis

			From any frightening diagnosis and diagnosis of fear over your life, overshadowing you, frightening you, and haunting you

			I reject that diagnosis and I say your life will be longer than those without such diagnosis!

			Whatever represents a scent of death, evil, darkness, tragedy

			I banish it from your life in Jesus’ name!

			Let a wind from God blow over you!

			A wind of healing, salvation, and deliverance!

			You are travelling to where you could not travel before!

			You are entering where you could not enter before!

			You are treading where your foot has never trodden on!

			I declare that the land and issues you are fighting over, the properties you are fighting over and the struggles of your life come to an end now!

			I release and deploy superior angels to fight for the children, the flocks, the sheep, and the people of God!

			Whatever case is against you is cancelled today!

			Whatever sentences are against you are overruled today!

			I bless you as a father blesses his son

			You are going to heights you could not go to!

			Receive grace for the increase of your stature

			Spiritually, financially, physically, and in every way

			Thank you for healing, for blessing, and for helping us Lord

			In Jesus’ Name

			Lift your hands and thank God!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 21




Prayer to Remove Any Idols and gods from Your Life & Prayer Against Curses




		 			Praise ye the Lord. O give thanks unto the Lord; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.

			Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? who can shew forth all his praise?

			Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times...

			Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.

			Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.

			They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel:

			But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert...

			They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.

			Psalm 106:1-3,7,8,13-14,19

		 			Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? who can shew forth all his praise?

			Psalm 106:2

			Many times, people show forth parts of the praise of God, but we must be able to thank God and show forth all His praise.

			1.	Pray and thank God for His mighty acts in your life.

			Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.

			Psalm 106:7

			2.	Pray for the Spirit of understanding. When we do not understand it can make us ungrateful.

			Those Who Forget

			People who have the least are normally ungrateful. Somebody once told me, “Orphans are usually ungrateful.” This is because people do not remember the great things other people have done for them.

			3. 	Pray for the Spirit of remembrance. The Holy Spirit is the Spirit of remembrance. He is the one who can help us to remember the great things that God, through people, has done for us.

			But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.

			John 14:26

			Pray for the spirit of remembrance.

			Father, deliver me from forgetfulness.

			Prayer to Remove any Form of Idol from Your Life

			They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.

			Psalm 106:19

			Every type of idol in our lives must go away. This is a major provocation to God.

			And Moses returned unto the Lord, and said, Oh, this people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.

			Exodus 32:31

			Many of us have made money into gods of gold.

			They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods, with abominations provoked they him to anger. They sacrificed unto devils, not to God; to gods whom they knew not, to new gods that came newly up, whom your fathers feared not.

			Deuteronomy 32:16-17

			Deuteronomy 32:16-17 shows us that gods are devils. The people incensed God greatly because they had actually chosen devils.

			And the king said unto her, Be not afraid: for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.

			1 Samuel 28:13

			Seeing “gods ascending out of the earth” means that these are living beings on the earth.

			And ye shall overthrow their altars, and break their pillars, and burn their groves with fire; and ye shall hew down the graven images of their gods, and destroy the names of them out of that place.

			Deuteronomy 12:3

			The images are the ‘images of their gods”.

			All these verses show that God does not like idols at all, because they are devils.

			1.	Pray that whatever connection there is between you and an idol is going away right now.

			This is the end of idols in our lives. PRAY!

			The List of gods to Pray Against

			a. 	The gods of gold

			They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

			Daniel 5:4

			b. 	The gods of silver

			They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

			Daniel 5:4

			c. 	The gods of brass. These look valuable, but they are actually not valuable.

			They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

			Daniel 5:4

			d. 	The gods of iron

			They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

			Daniel 5:4

			e. 	The gods of wood

			They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

			Daniel 5:4

			f. 	The gods of stone

			And there ye shall serve gods, the work of men’s hands, wood and stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.

			Deuteronomy 4:28

			g. 	The gods which are works of men’s hands

			And the Lord shall scatter you among the nations, and ye shall be left few in number among the heathen, whither the Lord shall lead you. And there ye shall serve gods, the work of men’s hands, wood and stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.

			Deuteronomy 4:27-28

			h. 	Men who are gods

			And the Lord said unto Moses, See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh: and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet.

			Exodus 7:1

			A man can become a god to you. God is against all other gods because they are devils.

			They sacrificed unto devils, not to God; to gods whom they knew not, to new gods that came newly up, whom your fathers feared not.

			Deuteronomy 32:17

			Which of us does not have money which can become a god? Which of us does not have a pastor who can become a god? Which of us does not have a man or a woman who can become a god?

			Rise to your feet and begin to pray to cleanse yourself of any god in your life. PRAY!

			Ask yourself, “What can I not give up?” That “thing” is your god. Pray and renounce it or renounce them.

			Pray and disconnect yourself. We shall not serve any of these gods!

			Characteristics of a god

			 				What makes you wake up early?

				What makes you travel?

				What makes you work hard?

				What makes you sacrifice?

				What makes you give?

				What makes you loyal?

				What makes you praise?



			And ye shall overthrow their altars, and break their pillars, and burn their groves with fire; and ye shall hew down the graven images of their gods, and destroy the names of them out of that place.

			Deuteronomy 12:3

			2.	Pray and remove any god from your hidden closet. If it is a name, change your name. If it is a necklace, throw it away.

			Every image, every artifact, pray and destroy it now!

			Idols bring curses

			And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father’s.

			Genesis 31:19

			Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel’s furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but found them not.

			Genesis 31:34

			Rachel was sitting on gods. What secrets are you sitting on? Sometimes we don’t understand the mysteries behind certain things.

			Whatever represents a god that is bringing a curse, we end it today.

			The Curse for Sitting on a Stolen god

			And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem.

			Genesis 35:19

			The curse for sitting on a stolen god is death - be it ministerial death, career death, financial death, business death or marital death!

			Whatever secret there is in our lives that brings a curse and can lead to death, has ended now! This is the end of images! This marks the end of secrets! Pray!

			Prayer against Seven Curses

			1. 	Generational or family curses.

			 Pray and break every generational curse.

			Whatever family curse that has been passed down to us, we break out of it now!

			Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me;

			Exodus 20:5

			I break any negative pattern associated with my family!

			Pray and Confess Your Sins of Idol Worshiping

			If they shall confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, with their trespass which they trespassed against me, and that also they have walked contrary unto me; Then will I remember my covenant with Jacob, and also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham will I remember; and I will remember the land.

			Leviticus 26:40, 42

			Pray and confess your idols and your father’s idols and secrets.

			2. 	The curse in the city.

			Cursed shalt thou be in the city, and cursed shalt thou be in the field.

			And thy life shall hang in doubt before thee; and thou shalt fear day and night, and shalt have none assurance of thy life:

			Deuteronomy 28:16, 66

			This is why God calls us to places in the city and in the field. Joseph was in a pit but he became a prime minister in the city of Egypt.

			Don’t be fixated to any city! Declare freedom from chains and the curse in the city.

			3. 	The curse of the field.

			Cursed shalt thou be in the city, and cursed shalt thou be in the field.

			Deuteronomy 28:16

			A field is an undeveloped place.

			Pray that you will be blessed in the field. Pray that any curse in the field shall not affect you.

			4. 	The curse of thy basket and thy store.

			Cursed shall be thy basket and thy store.

			Deuteronomy 28:17

			Your basket is your bank account. A basket is something that you pick something from easily. A store is a place that you go to when necessary. It is a curse when you owe more than what is in the bank.

			Pray and break whatever makes our basket and store empty.

			5. 	The curse on the fruit of your body.

			Cursed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy land, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep.

			Deuteronomy 28:18

			Every curse following my children - I break it now in the name of Jesus.

			6. 	The curse of the increase of thy kine, flocks and thy sheep.

			Cursed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy land, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep.

			Deuteronomy 28:18

			The Seven Areas to Increase in Your Ministry

			Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this.

			Isaiah 9:7

			1.	There must be an increase in your government.

			2.	There must be an increase in peace.

			3.	The must be an increase in order.

			4.	There must an increase in establishment.

			5.	There must be an increase in judgement (decision 		taking).

			6.	There must be an increase in justice (being treated fairly).

			7.	There must be an increase in zeal (energy to continue 		the ministry).

			7. 	The curse of coming in and going out.

			Cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and cursed shalt thou be when thou goest out.

			Deuteronomy 28:19

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father, we come before the table of the Lord, we declare that this body is the body of Jesus Christ

			We honour the body, we recognize the body, and we bow before the body of Jesus Christ

			As we receive this body, let the headship of Jesus Christ be over us

			Let His adornment and His glory be over our wretchedness

			Let the body of Christ swallow us up, that none may see us, but they may see the body of Christ

			Thank You for the body

			The body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			For that god you’ve hidden under the furniture, that secret sin and evil that you have combined with Christianity and your service to God

			As you’ve confessed it and as we take this communion, may it be washed away forever.

			Your mistakes and errors are washed by the blood, and the curse is neutralized by the blood

			The sacrifice of the blood overcomes the sacrifice you made to the devil

			Father we declare this wine to be the blood of Jesus

			Every juju, witchcraft, and power of darkness in our lives is wiped out

			The blood secures us

			We invoke divine protection for any advancing repercussion and harvest of evil we sowed in our lives, and things we hid under the chair

			Because of the blood, we shall escape the consequences!

			The blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessing

			Amen! to the blessing in your life

			May God save you and help you

			May God choose you and bring you near

			May God send you and approve of you

			May He approve of you with signs, wonders, and miracles.

			May He forgive you

			May He not remember your mistakes and errors

			May you rise from the ashes

			May you rise from the thick clay that has held your legs

			Be blessed!

			Whatever held you back, I cut it off now

			Whatever sat on you, is no more

			Now on this wise I bless you

			May the Lord lift up His face and reverse His angry countenance

			May He smile on you again

			The original smile He had for you, may He have that smile

			The Lord give you peace where there was no peace

			Happiness and joy where there was no joy

			The blessing and the glory of the Lord

			The Lord bless you and keep you

			The Lord heal you and help you

			Be gracious to you and give you peace

			Whatever satan has planned, it cannot work or succeed

			Whatever satan plans to do to destroy you, may the Lord reverse it and undo the works of the enemy in your life

			Now lift your hands and thank Him.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 22




Prayer about Your Prayer Life; Prayer against Snares and Traps; Prayer for Escapes; Prayer from Psalm 106 & Prayer of Dedication to Build God’s House




		 			Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.

			Luke 21:36

		 			Prayer about Your Prayer Life

			 1. 	Pray about your prayer life so that things will not surprise you; things will not surprise you when you are watching and praying.

			Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.

			Luke 21:36

			You shall be counted worthy to escape any surprise attack when you pray.

			Our way out of any surprise is through PRAYER; therefore, pray about your prayer life.

			Father, influence my prayer life by your Spirit. Help me to pray more so that I may be accounted worthy.

			2. Pray that from whatever represents a surprise, a snare or a trap, you shall be granted divine escape.

			Pray that you shall escape any form of surprise, trap or a snare.

			Prayer against Any Form of a Snare or a Trap

			1. 	Pray against a financial snare.

			Pray that you will not fall prey to any financial snare.

			And Pharaoh’s servants said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the Lord their God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed?

			Exodus 10:7

			2. 	Pray against any man who is a snare.

			And Pharaoh’s servants said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the Lord their God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed?

			Exodus 10:7

			3. 	Pray against any woman who is a snare.

			And I find more bitter than death the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.

			Ecclesiastes 7:26

			This scripture shows that a woman can be a snare. When a woman catches you in a snare, it is more bitter like death. One of the rewards for serving God is to escape from such women - a woman whose heart is snares.

			4. 	Pray against a snare of a prophet.

			The days of visitation are come, the days of recompence are come; Israel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the spiritual man is mad, for the multitude of thine iniquity, and the great hatred. The watchman of Ephraim was with my God: but the prophet is a snare of a fowler in all his ways, and hatred in the house of his God.

			Hosea 9:7-8

			A prophet can be a snare.

			Pray that you will not be misled into captivity by any prophet or pastor.

			Prayer for Escapes

			1. 	Pray to escape from national and international snares.

			Give a portion to seven, and also to eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth.

			Ecclesiastes 11:2

			For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare; so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.

			Ecclesiastes 9:12

			Father, grant me divine escape from national and international snares.

			2. 	Pray against Any Plane Crash. Whatever airline you sit in will never crash. It will take off and land safely.

			Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.

			Luke 21:36

			Every flight is declared a safe flight. I shall not sit in a plane where the pilot is drunk. I shall go and return safely in the name of Jesus.

			Whatever is on any flight that is evil, pray that it shall not affect you.

			Therefore, lift your hands and pray that you are counted worthy to escape all such snares.

			3.	Pray to escape from any bus. Whichever bus you sit on, you are declared safe.

			4.	Pray against marital snares.

			And Michal Saul’s daughter loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him. And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in the one of the twain.

			1 Samuel 18:20-21

			Whatever marital snare you are about to enter or have already entered is being broken now. Whatever represents a snare in your marriage is being broken now.

			Prayer from Psalm 106

			1. 	Pray for your soul’s well-being. Our prosperity depends on the health of our souls.

			Pray that you will not have leanness of your soul as you prosper.

			And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul.

			Psalm 106:15

			Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth.

			3 John 1:2

			10 Levels of Spiritual Fatness

			1.	Level of the Word

			2.	Level of Prayer

			3.	Level of Renewal of the Mind - Renewing of your mind

			4.	Level of Love

			5.	Level of Offenses and Forgiveness

			6.	Level of Experience

			7.	Level of Implementation - The implementation of God’s Word in your life.

			8.	Level of Humility

			9.	Level of Holiness

			10.	Level of Your Sanctification

			Saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day.

			Luke 9:22

			The word “suffer” here means experience.

			Your soul will never be called “lean”. Pray!

			2.	Pray that you will not make any of the mistakes of Dathan and Abiram.

			They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the Lord. The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.

			Psalm 106:16-17

			Ten Mistakes of Dathan and Abiram

			1. 	The mistake of rising up against Moses (your leader).

			And they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown:

			Numbers 16:2

			2. 	The mistake of gathering and organizing against your leader.

			And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord?

			Numbers 16:3

			3. 	The mistake of saying to the man of God, “You are too big.”

			And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord?

			Numbers 16:3

			4.	 The mistake of not recognizing a called and chosen person.

			And he spake unto Korah and unto all his company, saying, Even to morrow the Lord will shew who are his, and who is holy; and will cause him to come near unto him: even him whom he hath chosen will he cause to come near unto him.

			Numbers 16:5

			5. 	The mistake of not valuing the honour of being brought near.

			Seemeth it but a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel hath separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the Lord, and to stand before the congregation to minister unto them?

			Numbers 16:9

			6. 	The mistake of not coming when you are called.

			Moreover thou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with milk and honey, or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not come up.

			Numbers 16:14

			7. 	The mistake of murmuring.

			For which cause both thou and all thy company are gathered together against the Lord: and what is Aaron, that ye murmur against him?

			Numbers 16:11

			8. 	The mistake of grievous accusation.

			Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us?

			Numbers 16:13

			9. 	The mistake of saying that the man of God is making himself a prince.

			Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us?

			Numbers 16:13

			10. 	The mistake of provoking God.

			But if the Lord make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the Lord.

			Numbers 16:30

			What happened to these people who provoked God? The earth swallowed them.

			But if the Lord make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the Lord.

			Numbers 16:30

			Whatever mistake of Dathan and Abiram will not happen to you! Pray that you will not make the mistake of Dathan and Abiram. PRAY!

			Prayer of Dedication to Build God’s House

			And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on, So that I come again to my father’s house in peace; then shall the Lord be my God: And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God’s house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.

			Genesis 28:20-22

			Building the house of God is something that you must be determined to do. Jacob made a vow. You must determine that through you, God’s house will come into existence.

			 How do you make a stone, God’s house? The only answer is that THE HOUSE MUST BE BUILT.

			Father, take my life and my moments and use me to convert stones, sand and woods into God’s house.

			7 Keys to Becoming the Highest Kind of Church Building Apostle

			1. 	Humility

			For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.

			1 Corinthians 15:9

			2. 	Consciousness of unworthiness

			For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.

			1 Corinthians 15:9

			3. 	The grace of God

			But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

			1 Corinthians 15:10

			4. 	The grace not being in vain

			The grace of the books in the house not being in vain; the grace of the [church’s] flow prayers and unity services1 not being in vain; the grace of the teachings in the house and in camps not being in vain.

			But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

			1 Corinthians 15:10

			5. 	Labouring

			But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

			1 Corinthians 15:10

			6. 	Labouring more than a whole team

			But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I

			1 United Denominations early morning prayer meetings and special church services. United Denominations is a church founded by the author, Bishop Dag Heward-Mills with over 3000 churches worldwide.

			laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

			1 Corinthians 15:10

				An Apostle labours. THERE IS NO HOPE FOR A LAZY PERSON IN THE CHURCH.

			7. 	The presence of God with you.

			But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

			1 Corinthians 15:10

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			We present this bread before You; we believe that this bread is the communion with the body, our interaction with the rest of the body of Christ, and with the body of Jesus Himself

			Let the blessing that comes with the body come into our lives

			We honour and thank You Father, there is none like You

			Thank You for the privilege to be near to Jesus through this body. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Every unworthiness that you have

			As we take this blood, the memory of your sins is wiped out!

			Evidence against you is wiped out!

			Witnesses against you are removed!

			Evil accusations that rise up against you because of your mistakes are quenched!

			The blood of Jesus makes you pure

			May you be purified through the blood of Jesus Christ. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			May you be purified through the blood of Jesus

			May you be cleaned through the blood of Jesus

			May you live long because you were a partaker of the body of Jesus Christ

			Let all that hate you perish

			You will never be called an enemy of God or the church

			Be blessed and live long

			Survive every snare, everything that comes upon you unawares

			May you have the upper hand

			May God give you a surprise for every surprise

			May the Lord strengthen you

			May the Lord bless you and keep you

			The Lord make His face smile at you

			May the Lord reverse His angry countenance and lift up His countenance upon you and give you peace

			Whatever destroys your happiness and peace, I destroy it in the name of Jesus

			Receive the peace of God

			Let this blessing be upon you

			The Lord bless you and give you peace

			The Lord stabilize you and strengthen you.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 23




Prayer against Sins and Lusts in Your Life & Prayer for an Increase in the Anointing




		 			But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert.

			Psalm 106:14

		 			Prayer against Sins

			1. 	Pray and thank God for His mighty acts on your life.

			Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? who can shew forth all his praise?

			Psalm 106:2

			Mention or utter the mighty acts of the Lord. Pray and thank Him.

			2.	Ask God for the forgiveness of your sins.

			We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.

			Psalm 106:6

			For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders, thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness:

			Mark 7:21-22

			We are all guilty of these sins.

			3.	Pray for forgiveness of these thirteen sins:

			1.	Evil thoughts

			2.	Adulteries

			3.	Fornications

			4.	Murders

			5.	Thefts

			6.	Covetousness

			7.	Wickedness

			8.	Deceit

			9.	Lasciviousness

			10.	An evil eye

			11.	Blasphemy

			12.	Pride

			13.	Foolishness

			Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his. And, Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity.

			2 Timothy 2:19

			4.	Pray that God will grant you the foundation to serve Him.

			Prayer against Lusts in Your Life

			But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert.

			Psalm 106:14

			Pray against the lusts you have in your life, against the lusts found in Deuteronomy 5:21 below:

			Neither shalt thou desire thy neighbour’s wife, neither shalt thou covet thy neighbour’s house, his field, or his manservant, or his maidservant, his ox, or his ass, or any thing that is thy neighbour’s.

			Deuteronomy 5:21

			1.	Pray about your lusts for your neighbour’s wife.

			2.	Pray about your lusts for your neighbour’s house.

			3.	Pray about your lusts for your neighbour’s field.

			4.	Pray about your lusts for your neighbour’s manservant or maidservant.

			5.	Pray about your lusts for your neighbour’s ox.

			6.	Pray about your lusts for your neighbour’s ass.

			7.	Pray about your lusts for anything that is for your neighbour.

			Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take thee with her eyelids.

			Proverbs 6:25

			8. Pray about your lust for beauty.

			9. Pray about your lust for certain company or group.

			Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with them.

			Proverbs 24:1

			10.	 Pray about your desire for money. Pray that God will help you and deliver you from your love for money.

			The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to labour. He coveteth greedily all the day long: but the righteous giveth and spareth not.

			Proverbs 21:25-26

			For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

			1 Timothy 6:10

			Prayer for Increase in Anointing

			And the spirit entered into me when he spake unto me, and set me upon my feet, that I heard him that spake unto me.

			Ezekiel 2:2

			Prayer for Different Stages of the Anointing

			1.	Pray that you will receive the anointing when you listen to messages.

			2.	Pray for the anointing to come upon you as you listen to messages.

			3.	Pray that you will receive the anointing as you hear the word.

			4.	Pray that you will receive the anointing when you see certain things God wants you to see, or go to certain places that God wants you go.

			And the hand of the Lord was there upon me; and he said unto me, Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will there talk with thee.

			Then I arose, and went forth into the plain: and, behold, the glory of the Lord stood there, as the glory which I saw by the river of Chebar: and I fell on my face.

			Then the spirit entered into me, and set me upon my feet, and spake with me, and said unto me, Go, shut thyself within thine house.

			Ezekiel 3:22-24

			5.	Pray that you may receive the anointing through your spiritual tour.

			6.	Pray that you will receive new additional anointing.

			7.	Pray that you will receive the commissioning anointing.

			8.	Pray that you will receive the anointing that comes with a new way of thinking, new understanding, knowledge, counsel and wisdom.

			And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord;

			Isaiah 11:2

			When the anointing comes:

			a) You begin to have certain wisdom

			b) You begin to have certain understanding

			c) You begin to have certain knowledge

			9.	Pray that you will receive the anointing through somebody laying hands on you.

			10.	Pray that your words will receive anointing with accomplishing capabilities.

			So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth: it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it.

			Isaiah 55:11

			Father, please influence my words.

			11.	Pray that you will receive the anointing by honouring the anointed.

			12.	Pray that you will sow a seed to the Lord’s anointed and also be anointed.

			13.	Pray that you will receive the anointing on someone who died some time ago.

			And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.

			Luke 1:17

			14. Pray that you will receive the anointing to preach. The anointing is for working for God.

			The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised,

			Luke 4:18

			The Effects of This New Anointing

			1.	An impact on the poor.

			2.	An impact on the broken-hearted.

			3.	Deliverance to the captives: through you, captives 		will be free.

			4.	The blind will recover their sight.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father we come before Your table

			This was Your body which was broken for the whole world

			As we receive the body of Christ, may we receive an impartation and implantation of the body of Jesus - the supernatural connecting and grafting of us to the body of Jesus Christ

			We honour Your body and Your blood that You have shed for us

			And we have received the impartation of the body to our life. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Father, let this be a peace offering to bring peace between You and us

			Whatever troubles our lives because of the mistakes we have made,

			Whatever troubles we have brought upon ourselves because of our errors,

			May the blood of Jesus bring peace where there is no peace

			Peace to the troubled seas and waters of our lives

			The blood of Jesus. (Drink it)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			May the Lord bless you and keep you

			Be healed of every symptom and every dangerous illness

			The Lord keep you from car accidents, terror, armed robberies, sudden death and unexpected dangers

			From earthquakes, tornadoes, and hurricanes, and unexpected disasters in the world

			The Lord keep you from gunmen

			The Lord keep you from murderers

			The Lord keep you from evil

			The Lord make His face shine

			As the Lord makes His face shine, may other important faces shine upon you!

			Whatever angry face has been looking at you, may that face begin to shine

			The Lord lift up His countenance

			Let anger be turned into favour

			Let the disapproving face be turned into the approving face and give you peace

			Receive peace and receive help!

			In your troubled marriage, in your difficult and complex situations, the Lord give you long life

			The Lord give you peace where there was no peace, and peace where there was war, conflict, trouble, and difficulty.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 24




Prayer for the Spirit of Power & Prayer against Curses




		 			For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

			2 Timothy 1:7

		 		 			Prayer for the Spirit of Power

			For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

			2 Timothy 1:7

			1.	Spirit of power

			2.	Spirit of love

			3.	Spirit of a sound mind

			You can fight evil spirits with power.

			And when he had called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease.

			Matthew 10:1

			With the Spirit of power, you are overcoming evil spirits that influence you, harass you, and make you act in a certain way.

			1. 	Power not to run away.

			Power is needed to drink the cup that God has for us to drink. Every bad thing we do is from our flesh. The flesh is weak so it tends to move away from the heart’s true desire.

			And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour?

			Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.

			He went away again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done.

			And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were heavy.

			Matthew 26:40-43

			Pray for the Spirit of power.

			Whatever Satan has planned for us to do with our flesh will not happen because of the Spirit of power. The Holy Spirit is a Spirit of power; therefore, let’s pray for power.

			Whatever you are afraid of, especially fear, let us rise up and bind it.

			Some of us are afraid to marry; some of us are afraid to respond to the call of God.

			Rise up and bind this spirit of fear. Whatever you couldn’t handle before, you can now handle.

			2. 	Power to experience provocation without response. This is power not to react to earthly stimulation.

			Prayer secures angelic participation. Anybody who prays has a lot of angels around them.

			What think ye? They answered and said, He is guilty of death.

			Matthew 26:66

			Jesus became calm in the Garden of Gethsemane. Our calmness after hearing very bad news, like a death, shows the power we have.

			Then did they spit in his face, and buffeted him; and others smote him with the palms of their hands,

			Matthew 26:67

			Your response to bad treatment towards you shows the power that is working on you. Jesus was calm when they slapped Him and spat on Him. What would be your reaction if somebody slapped you?

			Pray for power to behave differently and respond differently; power to respond supernaturally.

			The power of God is coming into your life as you pray, to respond supernaturally!

			How would you respond if you saw pornography by accident? Do you feel sorry for people and have compassion?

			Pray for the power that will make you compassionate.

			3. 	Power not to tell lies or power to speak the truth.

			Now Peter sat without in the palace: and a damsel came unto him, saying, Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee.

			But he denied before them all, saying, I know not what thou sayest.

			And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him, and said unto them that were there, This fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth.

			And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man.

			Matthew 26:69-72

			Peter lied by saying that he did not know Jesus; although he had just dinner with him.

			When you lie, you change in the sight of the person you lie to. You betray the trust that the person had for you. The Spirit of power enables you to tell the truth.

			4. 	Power to identify with the right thing. Power to identify with somebody you have to identify with.

			And after a while came unto him they that stood by, and said to Peter, Surely thou also art one of them; for thy speech bewrayeth thee. Then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man. And immediately the cock crew.

			Matthew 26:73-74

			When you lack the power to identify with the right thing, you belong to different departments or compartments. When you have compartments, you have a double standard, depending where you are and which people you are with.

			This is where one compartment of people will think of you in one way and another compartment will think about you in a completely different way, yet you relate to both.

			Jesus didn’t change His stance

			Who do you identify with in the ministry? Who is your man of God? What do you stand for?

			Pray for the power to identify with one compartment or department.

			5. 	Power not to answer back or to defend yourself.

			This is the power not to answer back or defend yourself when something bad is being done to you or said about you or when you are being accused.

			And when he was accused of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing.

			Then said Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee?

			And he answered him to never a word; insomuch that the governor marvelled greatly.

			Matthew 27:12-14

			The governor was shocked when Jesus did not say anything because in the natural, human beings have an answer for everything.

			Pray for the Spirit of power not to answer back when you are being accused.

			6. 	Power to give.

			No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father.

			John 10:18

			The power to prosper is the power to give. The power to give is the spirit of prosperity.

			i.	Pray for the power to give your life

			ii.	Pray for the power to build a church

			ii.	Pray for the power to give a car

			7. 	Power to wait for God. It takes power to leave things to God.

			The governor answered and said unto them, Whether of the twain will ye that I release unto you? They said, Barabbas.

			Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ? They all say unto him, Let him be crucified.

			And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out the more, saying, Let him be crucified.

			When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather a tumult was made, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person: see ye to it.

			Then answered all the people, and said, His blood be on us, and on our children.

			Matthew 27:21-25

			And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man’s brother will I require the life of man. Whoso sheddeth man’s blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man.

			Genesis 9:5-6

			There is a curse for shedding blood. So when the people said “let his blood upon us”, they were confessing a curse upon themselves.

			Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.

			Romans 12:19

			Leave vengeance to God.

			Pray for the power to wait. Some of us need God to avenge us.

			8. 	Power to finish. Weakness is the opposite of power.

			Therefore, as we pray, the weakness is being destroyed.

			When Jesus therefore, had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.

			John 19:30

			As for the ministry, it is in our hearts to serve as lay ministers but we may not have the power to become missionaries.

			i.	Pray to finish your apostolic ministry; power to say one day, “It is finished.”

			ii.	Pray to finish your prophetic ministry; power to fulfill your prophetic ministry.

				Pray!

			iii.	Pray to finish your teaching and prophetic ministry like Moses, Elijah.

			iv.	Pray to finish your apostolic and prophetic ministry.

			This is where you are an apostle and a prophet at the same time.

			v.	Pray to finish your prophetic and evangelistic ministry.

			Pray for the combination of these two ministries in your life.

			Provide the Spirit of power to finish, Lord.

			vi.	Pray to finish your prophetic and pastoral ministry, like Kenneth Hagin. He was a prophet and a pastor.

			With these two combinations, you will know things about your sheep.

			A pastor is very important and we must feel sorry for anyone who does not have a pastor. Jesus felt sorry for the people he saw in Matthew chapter 9 because they were like people without a pastor.

			But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted, and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.

			 				Matthew 9:36vii. Pray to finish your prophetic and helps ministry, an example of this ministry is the little girl who helped Naaman.

Mary Magdalene, a helps minister, is the one who told Peter that she had seen Jesus (John 20:1-18).

viii. Pray to finish your prophetic and giving ministry.

ix. 	Pray to finish your prophetic and governmental ministry.

This involves sharing things, setting things in order and arranging things in order.

Prayer against Curses that are Poured Upon Us

And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer and supplications, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes:

Daniel 9:3

1. 	Prayer, supplication and sackcloth are the things that eradicate curses.

We have sinned, and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments:

Daniel 9:5

Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, which spake in thy name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.

O Lord, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusion of faces, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and unto all Israel, that are near, and that are far off, through all the countries whither thou hast driven them, because of their trespass that they have trespassed against thee.

Daniel 9:6-7

As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil is come upon us: yet made we not our prayer before the Lord our God, that we might turn from our iniquities, and understand thy truth.

Daniel 9:13

2. 	Prayer will affect the curse. If you want the curse to be removed, then prayer is one of the keys.

Pray and confess your sins, iniquities and the sins of your fathers and mothers.

Father, be merciful unto us.

3. 	God visits the iniquities of the fathers to the third and fourth generations; but prayer eradicates and neutralizes curses.

Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most Holy.

Daniel 9:24

i. 	Pray to bring an end to sins

ii. Pray to finish transgressions

iii. Pray for an end to iniquities - iniquities means something twisted

Father, bring an end of sins and finish transgressions.

Yea, all Israel have transgressed thy law, even by departing, that they might not obey thy voice; therefore, the curse is poured upon us, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of God, because we have sinned against him.

Daniel 9:11

iv. Pray for your life not to hang in the balance, without assurances. Pray against high levels of uncertainty. This brings depression.

And thy life shall hang in doubt before thee; and thou shalt fear day and night, and shalt have none assurance of thy life:

Deuteronomy 28:66

v. 	Pray against whatever makes your life uncertain and ask for forgiveness.

Whatever makes your life hang in doubt, whatever represents Deuteronomy 28:66, ask for forgiveness for it; even if it is coming from your ancestors. Whatever has happened in the past even to the fourth generation, ask God to forgive you.

Prayer against Something that You Cannot Escape From

Cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and cursed shalt thou be when thou goest out.

Deuteronomy 28:19

1. 	Pray against something that you cannot escape from no matter where you go.

You enter your first marriage, and then you come out; you enter your second marriage, and you experience the same problems. Therefore, pray!

As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him.

Amos 5:19

Everywhere I go, “it” comes there; “it” unsettles me. I plead the blood of Jesus to wash deeper. I apply the blood of Jesus to escape and finally destroy it. I am escaping from what I could not escape before.

I declare an end to every negativity that associates itself with me.

I reject it now in the name of Jesus!

Prayer against the Curse of No Vision and No Prosperity

1. 	Pray against aimlessness.

And thou shalt grope at noonday, as the blind gropeth in darkness, and thou shalt not prosper in thy ways: and thou shalt be only oppressed and spoiled evermore, and no man shall save thee.

Deuteronomy 28:29

2. 	Pray against no vision, no light, no zeal for life and lack of prosperity.

Whatever it is that takes away prosperity is being taken away now in the name of Jesus!

Father save us from the lack of prosperity!

Prayer against the Curse of Marital Disasters, Marital Contradictions and Marital Opposites

Thou shalt betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: thou shalt build an house, and thou shalt not dwell therein: thou shalt plant a vineyard, and shalt not gather the grapes thereof.

Deuteronomy 28:30

1. 	You come with love and the person gives you accusations - the opposite and a contradiction. You enter into marriage with a clean mind and a clean heart, but the marriage comes with a lot of problems that do not end.

Father, I pray for the forgiveness of iniquities and transgressions. Please let the curse end, Lord.

The marital contradictions, the marital opposites, Lord; please be merciful concerning any marital disaster following my life. Please be merciful.

Prayer against the Curse of the Lack of Good Harvest or Failed Harvest

1.	Pray against carrying much seeds, but not reaping much 	and not reaping a good harvest.

Thou shalt carry much seed out into the field, and shalt gather but little in; for the locust shall consume it.

Deuteronomy 28:38

The Curse

i.	Sowing much seeds in the church, sowing good seeds into people’s lives and get very little as result of your goodness.

ii. 	Sowing much as a wife and getting nothing back from your husband.

iii. Sowing many seeds as a husband and getting nothing back from your wife.

iv. Working hard and having nothing to show.

Prayer against the Curse of Captivity of Children

Thou shalt beget sons and daughters, but thou shalt not enjoy them; for they shall go into captivity.

Deuteronomy 28:41

You shall have sons and daughters but they will not be yours, for they will go into captivity.

Deuteronomy 28:41 NASB

The Curse

i. 	Children go into the captivity of alcoholism, fornication, bad friends and drugs. It can also be that through divorce, children end up being given to somebody else.

ii. 	Pray because children may belong to alcohol, sexual perversions, drugs, or they may belong to some strange boy or girl.

Pray against these captivities.

I pray for mercies Lord. I am asking for forgiveness. Please forgive our iniquities.

These curses are outside my walls. They are outside my dwelling place.

Prayer against the Curse of Sickness that Cannot Be Healed

The Lord will smite thee with the botch of Egypt, and with the emerods, and with the scab, and with the itch, whereof thou canst not be healed. The Lord shall smite thee in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore botch that cannot be healed, from the sole of thy foot unto the top of thy head. Moreover he will bring upon thee all the diseases of Egypt, which thou wast afraid of; and they shall cleave unto thee. Also every sickness, and every plague, which is not written in the book of this law, them will the Lord bring upon thee, until thou be destroyed.

Deuteronomy 28:27, 35, 60-61

The Curse

i. 	The main characteristic of this is something that cannot go. This is for all chronic diseases and whatever represents pain: back pain, knee pain and joint pain.

ii. 	Two main characteristics of the curse are found in Deuteronomy 28:60. One is where you are afraid of a disease and the other is disease shall also destroy you.

Father, be merciful on us. We are asking for healing and forgiveness of our sins, transgressions of our fathers even to the fourth generation.

Every fearful disease, every incurable disease which I am afraid of, I intercede Lord.

Every cancer and any form of cancer, I intercede, Lord.

Prayer against the Curse of Mental and Emotional Struggles

So that thou shalt be mad for the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.

Deuteronomy 28:34

1. 	Pray against mental and emotional instabilities in your life. Marital disasters can cause this.

Every mental and emotional distress in my life, I intercede now!

Anything that makes you cry is ending now. We overturn it and we overthrow it. We end it now in the name of Jesus.

Prayer against the Curse of Something being Stolen from You

1. 	Whatever the enemy wants to steal from you, pray against it.

2. 	Whatever is yours and has been stolen from you is ending today.

Therefore, we pray, Father let there be a total recovery and restoration. I break the curse Lord, I overcome it!

Father, give whoever is holding onto whatever is mine no rest, in the same way King Ahasuerus could not sleep until whatever reward was Mordecai’s, was given to him (Esther 6:1-3).

Pray against the Curse of Not being Promoted or the Curse of being Demoted

The stranger that is within thee shall get up above thee very high; and thou shalt come down very low.

Deuteronomy 28:43

The alien who is among you shall rise above you higher and higher, but you will go down lower and lower.

Deuteronomy 28:43 NASB

The foreigners living among you will become stronger and stronger, while you become weaker and weaker.

Deuteronomy 28:43 NLT

The Curse

i. 	Missing your promotion whilst others are being promoted. It is a curse when you are brought down very low.

This is the end of not being promoted. This is the end of your halt, this is the end of you going down and demoted.

Every cause of demotion, I reject it now. Whatever causes my demotion. Whatever causes me to be at one place all the time, I reject it in the name of Jesus!

Prayer against the Curse of the Anointing that Does Not Work for You

Thou shalt have olive trees throughout all thy coasts, but thou shalt not anoint thyself with the oil; for thine olive shall cast his fruit.

Deuteronomy 28:40

The Curse

i. 	The source of the anointing is there, but it does not change 	anything in your life. You are always around and have heard all messages, but there is no change in your life. You become like a salted ground, nothing grows on you. What is that grace that is in your ministry that is not affecting you?

ii. You are associated with a prosperous person, but you are poor. You are around the anointing, but nothing works in your life.

The anointing on your Prophet’s life is affecting you now! The grace that is upon him is coming upon you now.

Prayer against the Curse of Unanswered Prayer

And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass, and the earth that is under thee shall be iron.

Deuteronomy 28: 23

The Curse

1.	This is such that life on earth is not working and the heavens is also against you. The windows of heaven are closed upon you.

Whatever represents unanswered prayers, we cancel it, and Lord, we say be merciful onto us.

Father thank You for being merciful. Thank You for forgiving my transgressions and iniquities. Thank You Lord.

Communion Prayer

For you first, God raised up His Servant and sent Him to bless you by turning every one of you from your wicked ways.

Acts 3:26 NASB

Whatever I have in my cup is turning into the blood of Jesus right now

Indeed it is a cup of blessing

The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ?

The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? (1 Corinthians 10:16)

Bind demons now, bind scorpions, and bind the power of snakes in your life

Block every retaliation of the enemy against your life

Cut off the head of the snake - we cut off the head of the snake!

Father, we thank You!

Amen.





CHAPTER 25




Prayer from Psalm 17; Prayer to Secure Angelic Intervention; Prayer Concerning Your Ministry & Prayer from Isaiah 40




		 			Hear the right, O Lord, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.

			Psalm 17:1

			Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished...

			Isaiah 40:2



		 			Prayer from Psalm 17

			Hear the right, O Lord, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.

			Psalm 17:1

			Our prayers are cries to the Lord and God is hearing our cries.

			And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.

			Exodus 2:23

			They cried “by reason of the bondage”; our cry is our prayer. We are crying today and we are saying, “Lord attend unto our cry.”

			Let’s come to the Lord as we are. Through the blood of Jesus, we can come before the Lord. Let us pray from our hearts and let His judgment or decisions come from Him.

			Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up against them.

			Psalm 17:7

			We want God to show His loving kindness.

			Lift your hands and pray.

			Whatever is rising up against you, at work, home and in your finances, lift up your hands and declare judgment.

			Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me, and answer me.

			Psalm 27:7

			We are crying unto the Lord for His mercies.

			Cry for mercy, cry for your sins and mistakes.

			We cry for mercy, Lord.

			Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings,

			Psalm 17:8

			God can keep you as the apple of His eye. That means you are very special to God. It’s like somebody delicately holding an egg in his hands and moving around with it.

			Pray for the Lord to make you special. Pray for God to keep you as the apple of His eye and that He would hide you under the shadow of His wings.

			From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who compass me about. They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak proudly.

			Psalm 17:9-10

			These “deadly enemies” are evil spirits and they use people to speak proudly.

			They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth; Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.

			Psalm 17:11-12

			There are two types of Christians: Christians who are conscious of enemies and Christians who are NOT conscious of enemies. If you do not bind demons, it means you are not conscious of the enemy and the enemy will like to keep you in this state (in a state of ignorance).

			With the consciousness of demonic surprises and every young lion, and things moving in secret places ready to pounce on me, I curse the young lion that is lurking in secret places!

			Arise, O Lord, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked, which is thy sword:

			Psalm 17:13

			Arise O Lord and disappoint them, disappoint them Lord. Whatever seems to be a surprise against me, disappoint them Lord. Disappoint the young lion that is lurking in secret places in the name of Jesus!

			Rise up, Lord, confront them, bring them down; with your sword rescue me from the wicked. By your hand save me from such people, Lord, from those of this world whose reward is in this life.

			May what you have stored up for the wicked fill their bellies; may their children gorge themselves on it, and may there be leftovers for their little ones.

			Psalm 17:13-14 (NIV)

			Lord, fill the stomach of the wicked with what they have planned for me. May their children gorge themselves on it and may there be surplus left over for their little ones. Save me Lord from their hands.

			As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.

			Psalm 17:15

			Pray for the blood of Jesus to cleanse you. Kneel down and ask God to wash you with the blood of Jesus.

			 Wash me Lord, with the blood of Jesus, please take away my wickedness. Take away my mistakes and cleanse me Lord with the blood of Jesus. Vindicate me please.

			Three Realms of Prayer or Three Approaches to God

			1.	Approach God as though you are talking to A FRIEND. Pray about little things.

			When relating with a friend you don’t need to expressly ask for what you need. You just gp ahead and take what you need.

			What do you tell your friend? You tell your friend everything you need and what is worrying you. You tell your friend little things that you will not tell a father or judge. You speak to your friend about what is financially or socially embarrassing - “I need just three loaves because I am embarrassed.”

			2.	Pray to God like you are talking to A FATHER. Fathers are softer than judges.

			After this manner therefore, pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.

			Matthew 6:9

			Fathers do not give things on a legal basis. A father is more mystical. He takes decisions that you don’t understand. A father provides everything that you need which a judge will not do.

			Ask whatever you need and God our Father will do it for you.

			Fathers do not deal with legalities. They just give - 5 talents, 2 talents and 1 talent - it is not based on any legal basis.

			3.	Pray to God like you are talking to A JUDGE.

			And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint; Saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man:

			And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man;

			Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith.

			And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them?

			I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?

			Luke 18:1-8

			The Laws of Prayer

			(This is about Praying to God Using Laws)

			a)	 Agree with someone now and pray: “Again I say unto you, That if two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven”(Matthew 18:19).

			Thus saith the Lord against all mine evil neighbours, that touch the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit; Behold, I will pluck them out of their land, and pluck out the house of Judah from among them.

			Jeremiah 12:14

			One of the “legal prayers” we should pray is that the Lord should pluck out our evil neighbours. Whatever represents evil neighbours, may the Lord pluck them out.

			Pluck them Lord, pluck out evil neighbours out of my life.

			Do you know that what your neighbours do can affect you? Your neighbour is somebody who does something which can affect you.

			Father, any negative thing from my neighbours at work and home please pluck them out in the name of Jesus.

			b) 	Abide in Christ - this is also a rule or a law: If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. (John 15:7)

			If you have been a Christian for 3 years and you know 30 scriptures, then Christ abides in you. Therefore, claim His law and use it to pray for 1 Peter 5:10.

			But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you.

			1 Peter 5:10

			Pray for God to settle you, to establish you and to strengthen you. Pray to God about your finances, your marriage, your job and your relationships.

			Father we come to You according to Your Word in 1 Peter 5:10. Settle us, establish us and strengthen us.

			Every lifting of hands! Settlement is coming! Establishment is coming! Strengthening is coming!

			c) 	Ask in His name: And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full (John 16:23-24).

			This is about our desires and God is interested in our desires.

			Whatever your desire is, ask Him now.

			Therefore, I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.

			Mark 11:24

			Prayer Secures Angelic Intervention

			And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour. And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets.

			And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.

			And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angel’s hand.

			And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.

			Revelation 8:1-5

			1.	Pray for angelic participation and involvement.

			And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time of incense. And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him.

			But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth.

			For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother’s womb. And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God.

			And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years.

			And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings. And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.

			Luke 1:10-20

			1.	Angels can do a lot of things. Whatever has stopped working, angels can cause to start again.

			2.	The presence of angels can bring joy and gladness; angels can cause a womb that is decayed to become revived again.

			Happiness is coming into your life and life is coming into your ministry.

			Prayer Concerning Your Ministry

			Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned: for she hath received of the Lord’s hand double for all her sins.

			Isaiah 40:2

			1. 	Pray about whatever warfare or battle that must be won to release you into the ministry.

			Four Areas of Warfare

			1.	War to ENTER the ministry

			2.	War to STAY in the ministry

			3.	War to ADVANCE in ministry

			4.	War to FINISH your ministry

			Break out of any entanglement to ENTER the ministry, to STAY in the ministry, to ADVANCE in ministry and to FINISH your ministry.

			Any of us can be found in any of these four areas. Therefore, pray for the area that you find yourself in.

			Father, give me the grace to advance and finish my ministry.

			2. 	Pray against anything that will prevent you from entering the ministry.

			Begin to curse opposition, accusation and limitation that is blocking your door of entrance to another realm of ministry.

			Bind any form of fear that is preventing you from entering into another realm of ministry.

			Bind any opposition against you.

			3.	Pray against anything that will cause you not to stay in the ministry.

			Bind anything that does not want you to stay; accomplish the warfare.

			And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.

			John 10:28

			Satan wants to pluck you out of the ministry.

			Declare war in the spirit against any plucking force that wants to extract you from the ministry and any force that wants to stop you from advancing in ministry.

			And the king Ahasuerus laid a tribute upon the land, and upon the isles of the sea.

			And all the acts of his power and of his might, and the declaration of the greatness of Mordecai, whereunto the king advanced him, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia?

			Esther 10:1-2

			And Samuel said unto the people, It is the Lord that advanced Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.

			1 Samuel 12:6

			Whatever has decided to kill you, there will be angelic intervention and you will be advanced in the ministry. Make war against anything that resists your advancement and progress in ministry.

			Bind anything in your life that is causing limitations. Remove the boundaries!

			4.	Pray for advancement in ministry. Study the Boaz anointing. This is the anointing to finish what you have started.

			Then said she, Sit still, my daughter, until thou know how the matter will fall: FOR THE MAN WILL NOT BE IN REST, UNTIL HE HAVE FINISHED THE THING THIS DAY.

			Ruth 3:18

			The man (Boaz) did not rest until he finished what he started. Likewise, there should be no rest for us until we finish the ministry.

			5. 	Pray for the Boaz anointing to finish your ministry.

			Father, give me the grace of Boaz to finish the ministry. Give me the anointing of Boaz to finish what I have started.

			[Prepare and dress - you have to know the right timing if you want to marry. Ruth depended on the wisdom of an elderly person, her mother-in-law. (Ruth 3:1-6).]

			Prayers from Isaiah

			Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned: for she hath received of the Lord’s hand double for all her sins.

			Isaiah 40:2

			Three Types of Sins

			i.	Sins

			ii.	Iniquities

			iii.	Transgressions

			1. 	Pray Against any Iniquity in Your Life.

			Iniquity means a twistedness, perversion and orientation towards a certain direction.

			For example, a young child who says, “I want to kill myself” or a young child who is into pornography, means the child is seriously oriented in a certain direction.

			 Pray against any orientation towards treachery, disloyalty, unfaithfulness and accusations.

			Lord forgive me for whatever twistedness there is in my life.

			2. 	Pray to Prepare the Way for The Lord.

			The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God.

			Isaiah 40:3

			Pray to prepare the way for the Lord through preaching and through teaching from the books.

			Pray to prepare a highway for the Lord.

			Pray to make straight, a way in the desert for God.

			The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God.

			Isaiah 40:3

			Pray God will use you to make a straight path in the desert, a highway for our God. Every desert will have a highway and an easy way for God. Therefore, pray that 190 nations will be captured for the Lord.

			3. 	Pray Concerning Every Valley in Your Life.

			Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain.

			Isaiah 40:4

			A valley is a low place in life. The low aspect of your life that makes you think that you cannot be in ministry shall be exalted.

			Every valley shall be filled!

			Every mountain and hill (big problems and small problems) shall be made low!

			Every crooked thing shall be made straight and every rough place shall be made plain!

			Every valley in my life is being filled. I command every mountain and every hill to be lowered. I speak to the crooked places in my life, it is being made straight, and every rough place in my life is being made plain.

			But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious, longsuffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.

			O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid.

			Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because thou, Lord, hast holpen me, and comforted me.

			Psalm 86:15-17

			Lord show me a token for good so that those who hate me may see it and be ashamed.

			The valleys are being filled. The mountains shall be brought low, crooked places shall be made straight and the rough places shall be made plain. Lord, strengthen Your anointed, help me and comfort me Lord according to Your word. Show me a token for good, shame them Lord.

			Thank God for the valleys you see today. You shall not see them again!

			The mountains and the hills you see today, you shall not see them again!

			 The crooked places you see today, you shall not see again!

			 The rough places you see today, you shall not see them again!

			4. 	Pray To Give Yourself to the Ministry of the Word.

			Hear the right, O Lord, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.

			Psalm 17:1

			The prophetic word is cry.

			The voice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field: The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it: surely the people is grass.

			Isaiah 40:6-7

			The flower is the goodliness of man. God is showing us that the goodliness of our lives is very short. Therefore, we must give ourselves to the ministry of the Word.

			But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word.

			Acts 6:4

			Father, show me how I can give myself to the ministry of the Word. Everything else is grass and flowers, they will just fade away soon. Give me the grace for the ministry of the Word.

			 The people are like grass and as the flower that fades away. Everything is useless.

			5. 	Pray to Lift your Voice with Strength to Bring Good Tidings.

			O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain; O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God!

			Isaiah 40:9

			We must go all-out for the ministry of the Word!

			Lift up your voice with strength for the ministry of the Word.

			Pray that you will be part of those who bring good tidings, bringing the good tidings with strength, with financial strength, with television and media strength and with airwaves strength.

			Grant us this grace for Your church, Lord!

			6. 	Pray to Give yourself unreservedly to the Great Commission. Let’s give ourselves unreservedly to the Great Commission.

			Pray committing your pastoral ministry to God.

			Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him: behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him.

			Isaiah 40:10

			His work and His reward come together - in His right hand is work and in His left hand is the reward.

			He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the Lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young.

			Isaiah 40:11

			Four Parts of Your Pastoral Ministry

			1.	FEEDING ministry of feeding the sheep with the Word.

			2.	GATHERING ministry of gathering the Lambs and the feeble ones in your arms.

			3.	CARRYING ministry of carrying the Lambs because they are fragile.

			4.	LEADING ministry of leading those who are young.

			Father, help me to fulfill these four parts of my pastoral ministry. Help me to feed your flock, grant me the grace to gather the Lambs, help me to carry the Lambs because they are fragile and give me the grace to lead the young ones, Lord.

			7. 	Pray and Break any Covenants that You Have Ever Made, Knowingly and Unknowingly.

			Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown: yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth: and he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble.

			Isaiah 40:24

			Pray to abolish any covenant you have made knowingly and unknowingly.

			Break any covenant you have made knowingly and unknowingly, any covenant that is affecting your spiritual condition and spiritual state.

			Terminate it now, come out of it now, break it now in the name of Jesus! Any money that you have paid in an occultic place, cancel it now!

			Any satanic or demonic covenant that is affecting your resourcefulness and your response to the ministry, break it now. It shall not take root, any comment that has been spoken over you, it shall not take root and it shall not be established.

			8.	Pray against Anything that Has Affected the Hedge Around Us.

			Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.

			Job 1:10

			Pray against every break or perforation in the hedge that is not making us resourceful and response to the ministry.

			9. 	Pray against Negative Predictions over your life.

			Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown: yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth: and he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble.

			Isaiah 40:24

			Any lie that has been spoken against us and is working against us, we intercept it now and curse it.

			I curse any negative prediction over my life. I cancel any negative prediction against my life, my family and my children, in the name of Jesus. The predictions shall not take root in my life. We intercept and destroy them.

			10.	Pray against Genetic Disorders or Generational Patterns.

			Any genetic disorder or generational influence or generational pattern, I cancel it now by the blood of the Lamb. Every repeated pattern, I disconnect from it. Psychological disorders, mental disorders, and financial disorders - I reject you from my life, my children’s life, my husband’s life / my wife’s life.

			11.	Pray against Sexual Defilement.

			Cancel any form of sexual defilement or sexual contamination. Pray against any form of contamination. Cancel every sexual corruption.

			Every satanic seed that is planted in my life, I pray for it to dissolved now!

			Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown: yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth: and he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble.

			Isaiah 40:24

			Command the demonic seed planted in your body and mind, to dissolve now!

			I flush it out of my mind; I flush it out of my body; I flush it out of my system in the name of Jesus!

			12.	Pray against Traps or Devices that are designed to Catch You.

			I escape schemes, they shall not take root in my life. I demolish all traps. My soul has escaped from every trap. Every device designed to catch me, I destroy it. I decree and declare they shall not prosper.

			Thank God for the divine escapes and thank God for the divine freedom from the traps of the enemy.

			But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious, longsuffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.

			O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid. Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because thou, Lord, hast holpen me, and comforted me.

			Psalm 86:15-17

			Thank You, Lord, for giving me strength. Thank You Lord for being gracious to me, thank You for fighting for me.

			Every snake that has been attached to my leg that goes everywhere with me, I cut you off now! I bind you now and I cut off your head now.

			Communion Prayer

			Whatever medicine cannot solve, this communion can solve

			Let this communion present healing and protection

			When I see the blood, I will pass over

			Whatever represents death, it shall not touch you

			You will escape any planned death from the enemy because of this communion

			If you believe that this prayer has been a blessing, then raise an alter by giving a thanksgiving offering

			Thank you, Jesus.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 26




Prayer for Confessions of Sins & Prayer for the Gifts of the Holy Spirit




		 			Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my meditation.

			Psalm 5:1



		 			Note that even when you are thinking, it is a type of prayer. This shows that you are getting closer to God.

			My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O Lord; in the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.

			Psalm 5:3

			God must hear our voice in the morning. We must learn to pray to God without any special topic.

			And Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers: and Zabud the son of Nathan was principal officer, and the king’s friend:

			1 Kings 4:5

			Just as David, had a friend called Zabud, we must also learn to be a friend of God, so we come to Him without any topic.

			Prayer to Confess Seven Types of Sins

			1. 	Pray to confess your wickedness.

			For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither shall evil dwell with thee.

			Psalm 5:4

			God does not have pleasure in wickedness.

			•	Pray that whatever is wicked and is wrong in our lives, 		God would forgive us.

			•	Pray also about the wickedness of our fathers, mothers 		or our grandparents to our fourth generation.

			And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?

			John 9:1-2

			The scripture in John 9:1-2 shows that we can suffer so much for something that we have not done. We can suffer from something that our parents have done.

			Lord whatever represents wickedness in our lives please forgive us. Please take wickedness out of our lives. We confess our sins, Lord.

			2. 	Pray to confess your foolishness.

			Foolishness causes depression.

			Whatever represents foolishness in our lives and the lives of our fathers, please forgive us.

			Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding.

			Proverbs 9:6

			This verse shows that foolishness can lead to death.

			The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.

			Proverbs 10:1

			A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bare him.

			Proverbs 17:25

			We are praying against whatever foolishness we have applied that is affecting us now; using foolishness to make marital decisions which is now affecting us.

			Lord whatever foolishness has resulted in evil, please forgive us.

			Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore, he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin.

			John 19:11

			This verse shows us that there are levels of sins. Some sins are “greater” than others.

			3. 	Pray to confess your transgressions.

			These are boundaries that we should not have crossed, for example, insulting your parents, or David having an affair with Bathsheba and killing her husband. His punishment was going to be death until he confessed his transgression to Prophet Nathan.

			Wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the LORD, to do evil in his sight? thou hast killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and hast taken his wife to be thy wife, and hast slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon.

			2 Samuel 12:9

			Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most Holy.

			Daniel 9:24

			This verse contains three of the seven types of sin.

			Father, forgive my transgressions. Please forgive me for the lines I have crossed that I should not have crossed, be merciful unto me Lord.

			4. 	Prayer to confess our iniquities.

			An “iniquity” is to be oriented or twisted towards something abnormal.

			Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most Holy.

			Daniel 9:24

			But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.

			Isaiah 53:5

			If you put money in the hand of somebody who is twisted, it would not be good. Can God trust you with power? Can God trust you with people or His sheep? Can God trust you with money?

			Are you oriented towards quarrelling? Are you twisted towards fear?

			Pray and ask for forgiveness of your iniquities:

			•	Every orientation towards strife

			•	Every orientation towards pride and arrogance

			•	Every orientation towards the desire for more money

			•	Every orientation towards rebellion

			•	Every orientation towards disloyalty

			Please take it away in the name of Jesus.

			Please do not say bad things about your church in front of your children. They will be oriented or twisted in their mind and heart against the church. They will grow not to like the church and the leaders.

			Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

			Psalm 51:1-2

			Please wash me thoroughly from my orientations or iniquities Father. Cleanse me thoroughly with the blood of Jesus from my orientations. I confess my tendencies that are negative, Lord.

			Even where we come from has oriented or crooked us towards what is there. Father, as a Judge, please release me from all orientations by the blood of the Lamb. Release me from negative tendencies and crookedness, in the name of Jesus.

			5. 	Pray to confess your secret faults.

			These are the sins of the heart, these are the sins that nobody sees, except in the spirit realm.

			Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret faults.

			Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression. Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength, and my redeemer.

			Psalm 19:12-14

			Therefore, do not go on passing judgment before the time, but wait until the Lord comes who will both bring to light the things hidden in the darkness and disclose the motives of men’s hearts; and then each man’s praise will come to him from God.

			1 Corinthians 4:5 NASB

			Notice - all judgments are based on our motives or what is in our mind.

			Father, whatever is in our minds and our hearts, please cleanse and forgive us.

			And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all: for Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually.

			Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them.

			And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?

			Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought? Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.

			But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the LORD.

			Job 1:5-12

			“Does he serve you for nothing?” Satan accused Job of his motives for serving God faithfully and it opened a door for satan to attack Job and wipe away everything he owned.

			A great attack can come upon you based on what is in your heart or based on what your motive is. Motives change everything and motives alone can wipe out everything in our lives.

			Father, whatever our motive that is not good, please forgive us.

			Cleanse me from my secret faults, cleanse me from my wicked pursuits and cleanse me from my wicked plans, in the name of Jesus.

			6. 	Pray to confess your spiritual sins.

			Having therefore, these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.

			2 Corinthians 7:1

			Examples of Spiritual Sins

			You can have filthiness of the flesh and of the SPIRIT.

			 				UnbeliefLet us labour therefore, to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief.

Hebrews 4:11

•	Your fear of men and not standing up for what is right

And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.

1 Samuel 15:15

•	Not knowing God

Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away backward.

Isaiah 1:4

•	Not being grateful or being unthankful

For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.

Hebrews 6:10





			It is unrighteousness to forget somebody’s work and labour of love.

			Father, have mercy on me for unbelief, for being ungrateful and for not knowing You. Forgive us Lord.

			7.	 Pray to confess your debts.

			Debts are what you owe God.

			And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

			Matthew 6:12

			Therefore, to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.

			James 4:17

			What we know to do that which is a good thing, and we do not do it, it is something that we owe God.

			Father, whatever debt we owe You, please forgive us.

			Whatever I have to do that I have not done, please forgive me.

			The souls that I have to win that I have not won, please forgive me.

			Father, whatever money I owe that I have not paid, please forgive me.

			So he called every one of his lord’s debtors unto him, and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord?

			Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and write fourscore.

			Luke 16:5, 7

			How much do you owe the Lord? We owe the Lord so much that we are not paying.

			Forgive us our debts, Lord.

			If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account;

			I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides.

			Philemon 1:18-19

			Lord, I owe You my whole life. We owe You our lives, we owe our days to You and we owe our moments to You, Lord. I am sorry for giving my youthfulness to something else.

			Prayer for the Increase of the Anointing

			If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?

			Luke 11:13

			We are praying for the Holy Spirit.

			We need You Holy Spirit. Come please, what we need is You.

			1. Pray for the Gifts of the Holy Spirit.

			The gift is an endowment. So what gift have you been given?

			A gift is something you do with ease whilst others struggle to do the same.

			Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.

			1 Corinthians 12:4

			A man’s gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.

			Proverbs 18:16

			More gifts mean more opportunities; more gifts, more stages.

			Lord, don’t let me be “giftless” (without any gift).

			Every “giftless” person is receiving a gift. “Giftlessness” is ending. You will be there because of your gift. You will never be called dry. You will never be called empty.

			a) 	Pray for additional gifts - every man according to his ability to handle the gift.

			Father, please give me more talents according to my ability. Additional gifts, Lord.

			b) 	Pray for the stirring of the gifts.

			Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.

			2 Timothy 1:6

			Pray for all dormant gifts to be stirred. Whatever is unstirred must be stirred now in the name of Jesus.

			Father, stir up any sleeping gift in me, power of the Holy Spirit come.

			I am asking for additional gifts, I am asking for You to stir up the dormant gifts.

			Pray for any gift that has never been activated, to be activated now.

			It is happening now; it is stirring up now; it is being activated now. Because of the gifts, all sorts of people will come into your ministry; all sorts of people will come into your life!

			c) 	Pray for every gift that has been neglected.

			Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.

			1 Timothy 4:14

			Neglected things are neglected because they are not liked. That is why there are many dresses in our closets and wardrobes that we don’t wear.

			Pray for every neglected gift to be activated and pull the neglected gifts out of your closet.

			Neglect not the gift that is in given to you BY PROPHECY WITH THE LAYING ON OF THE HANDS.

			Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.

			1 Timothy 4:14

			What are the prophetic words or statements that have come to you? What are the comments that have been spoken over you?

			d) 	Pray for your proper gifts. A proper gift is a personal gift or private gifts.

			For I would that all men were even as I myself. But every man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that.

			1 Corinthians 7:7

			These are personalized abilities. They are super abilities - pray to receive them.

			For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift, to the end ye may be established;

			Romans 1:11

			The spiritual gifts are what will establish us in ministry and in life.

			2. 	Pray for the Administration of the Holy Spirit.

			And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord.

			1 Corinthians 12:5

			3.	Pray for the Operations of the Holy Spirit.

			And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all.

			1 Corinthians 12:6

			4. 	Pray for the Manifestations of the Holy Spirit.

			This the only part of the Holy Spirit that Paul explained.

			But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal.

			1 Corinthians 12:7

			5.	Pray to bind any demon in your life, bind now.

			Bind the snake and cut off the head of any snake in your life.

			Bind spiritual lions and spiritual dogs.

			And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet. And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee hereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it.

			Mark 11:13-14

			Lift your hands and declare judgment on every fig tree that represents mockery. Declare judgment now, may they wither to their root.

			Communion Prayer

			Father, thank You for victory over the enemy through the blood of the Lamb

			Right now, we come to Jesus with His body in our hands

			May this blessing come into my house now

			Father, the blood of Jesus, let it take away our sins

			May the body and the blood of Jesus answer for our death certificate

			Let the angel of death pass by us because of the body and the blood.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 27




Prayer for Forgiveness of Sins; Prayer for the Operation of the Holy Spirit & Prayer for a Blessing




		 			And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.

			1 Kings 17:1



		 			And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the Lord God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.

			1 Kings 17:1

			When Elijah introduced himself, his credentials was that he stands before God. Standing before the Lord means staying around the presence of God. This is one of the greatest credentials a person can have.

			And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings.

			Luke 1:19

			The greatest credentials you can ever have is standing in the presence of the Lord like Abraham, Elijah and angel Gabriel.

			Prayer for the Forgiveness of Your Sins and the Sins of Your Fathers

			Yea, all Israel have transgressed thy law, even by departing, that they might not obey thy voice; therefore, the curse is poured upon us, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of God, because we have sinned against him.

			Daniel 9:11

			There are 2 types of curses:

			i.	Curses that are written in the Bible

			ii.	Curses from life

			There are biblical curses in our lives, for example, “cursed is the ground” and the curse on Ham’s sons.

			There are other curses that may have been brought on from your life. There are also curses that may have brought into your life from your father and grandfathers’ lives.

			1.	Pray for the forgiveness of your sins and the sins of your parents.

			Prayer About Your Past Sins

			There are situations that you cannot escape from. The only way to escape is to pray for forgiveness.

			That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar.

			Matthew 23:35

			This blood that was shed is not blood that you have shed yourself. It is blood that has already been shed and we are paying for it. From the blood of Abel to the blood of Zachariah - this is something that was done before the people being spoken to were born.

			Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come upon this generation.

			Matthew 23:36

			This is why sometimes we ask “Why me?” There are reasons for many mysterious things. Therefore, whatever represents a curse or judgment that is coming, which we have nothing to do with, let us pray for mercy.

			Father we confess our sins and the sins of our fathers. Whatever we have invoked, we pray for mercy in Jesus’ name!

			Prayer for the Holy Spirit, and for Blessings to Neutralize the Curses

			Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse;

			A blessing, if ye obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you this day: And a curse, if ye will not obey the commandments of the Lord your God, but turn aside out of the way which I command you this day, to go after other gods, which ye have not known.

			Deuteronomy 11:26-28

			There are blessings and curses. One of the ways to neutralize the curses is to pray for blessings. Even though we are saved, curses are still active.

			Which man can say “I don’t sweat for bread”? Which woman can say “I don’t go through the pain of marriage and having children”?

			Pray for the Spirit of wisdom and guidance as we escape the curses.

			Father, show me where the blessings are. I need the blessings, please show me.

			Prayer to Labour in the Spirit for Blessings

			1. 	Pray for the blessings for the poor in spirit.

			Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

			Matthew 5:3

			What does this mean?

			The word “poor” is “Tokos”, which means somebody who is crouching.

			Pray that God will bless you in whatever powerless and helpless state that you are in.

			Father by Your blessings, bless us. Let divine assistance come to the powerless and to the helpless.

			Whatever blessing belongs to the poor in spirit, please I lift up my hand, pour out Your blessing, Lord.

			Whatever the poverty-stricken state is, there is a blessing that comes to people in such a state.

			2. 	Pray for the blessing of your tears. There is a blessing that comes to those who mourn. There are things that make you cry.

			Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.

			Matthew 5:4

			Mention 7 things that have made you cry and pray for blessings for each of them.

			Mention each of the 7 things that made you cry:

			1.	Maybe marriage made you cry.

			2.	Maybe education made you cry.

			3.	Maybe sin has made you cry.

			4.	Maybe rejection made you cry.

			5.	Maybe heartbreaks made you cry.

			6.	Maybe sickness or pain made you cry.

			7.	Maybe a diagnosis made you cry.

			Your tears are turning into blessings as you pray for blessings for each of these seven things.

			Pray for the blessings for the tears on your pillow.

			Father, we tap into the blessings of those who are disappointed, the blessings of funerals and deaths in the name of Jesus.

			3. 	Pray for the blessings for meek people.

			Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.

			Matthew 5:5

			Pray for the blessings that come upon those that are meek. If we are proud, arrogant, and haughty, this blessing cannot come upon us. There is a blessing for someone who is humble, therefore, whatever pride is in me, the arrogance, please take them away, Lord.

			4.	Pray for the blessings of giving.

			I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.

			Acts 20:35

			Perhaps you are a melancholic and you calculate for three months in advance before giving and it therefore, does not allow you to give easily.

			Pray that you will become a giver from today.

			Father, make me a giver, Lord, let the blessings of giving come upon me. Teach me, Lord.

			No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father.

			John 10:18

			Financial wealth is based on the power to give.

			Father give me the power to give: power to give to support your church, power to give to support missionaries and missions in the name of Jesus.

			Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.

			Matthew 5:6

			5.	Pray for the blessings of hungering and thirsting after righteousness. This is the prayer for a strong desire for righteousness.

			Pray for a strong desire for the righteousness of God, a hunger for the righteousness of God, a thirst for the righteousness of God. Pray for the blessing of being merciful.

			Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.

			Matthew 5:7

			If you are a father, your household is your kingdom. If you are a pastor, you have the opportunity to show mercy. If you are in a human institution, you have the opportunity to show mercy.

			Please note that certain curses come to our lives because we are not merciful. Therefore, pray that you will be merciful to others.

			Father, make my heart a forgiving heart, one to forgive others.

			6.	Pray for the blessings of being pure in heart.

			Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.

			Matthew 5:8

			We are praying for blessings because a curse is poured out. For example, a curse was poured upon Eli’s children.

			The time is coming when I will put an end to your family, so it will no longer serve as my priests. All the members of your family will die before their time. None will reach old age. You will watch with envy as I pour out prosperity on the people of Israel. But no members of your family will ever live out their days.

			1 Samuel 2:31-32 NLT

			If you see poverty, and a lot of deaths happening, you may not easily know that they are coming from curses that have been poured out on that family line. Therefore, we are praying for blessings to neutralize these curses.

			A half pill of chloroquine in a glass of water changes everything, because chloroquine is very bitter - just like a drop of ink in water changes everything. Pray for the blessing to be pure in heart.

			Lay hands on your heart and ask God to make you pure in heart.

			7.	Pray for the blessing of peace-making.

			Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.

			Matthew 5:9

			There is a blessing for somebody who makes or brings peace. You are a maker of peace.

			Father, make me a peacemaker in my home, in my marriage and in my family in the name of Jesus.

			8.	Pray for the blessings for those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake.

			Blessed are they, which are persecuted for righteousness’ sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

			Matthew 5:10

			The devil does not attack a dead piece of wood, however when you are alive and serving God, expect some persecution.

			Whatever blessing that comes with persecution for righteousness’ sake, Lord, we tap into it.

			Jacob prayed directly for a blessing.

			And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me.

			Genesis 32:26

			This means I will not stop praying until you bless me.

			9. 	Pray for the blessings of being accused falsely.

			Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.

			Matthew 5:11

			•	Pray for the blessing that comes for all manner of evil against you falsely.

			•	Pray for the blessing of being delivered from the advice of the ungodly.

			•	Pray for the blessing of never standing again in the way of sinners.

			•	Pray for the blessing of never sitting again in the seat of the scornful or mockers.

			Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.

			Psalm 1:1

			All changes in your life come from the people you meet. One person can change your sexual orientation from a normal one to something else and one person can change you from a loyal person to a traitor and a treacherous person. One of the greatest blessings is meeting someone who brings blessings into your life.

			10. 	Pray for the blessing of meeting people who will change your ministry in a positive way.

			Prayer for the Blessings of Jacob

			And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.

			Arise, go to Paddan–aram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother’s father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban thy mother’s brother.

			And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people;

			And give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham.

			Genesis 28:1-4

			Conditions for Blessings from the Father

			“Don’t marry here, go to this place and take a wife from this particular place.” (Genesis 28:1-2). After these conditions, Jacob’s father blessed him in Genesis 28:3. Jacob got his blessing from his father, and then he received blessings from God in Genesis 32.

			1. 	Pray for multiplication; fruitfulness such that you become a multitude of people.

			And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people;

			Genesis 28:3

			2. 	Pray for the blessing of inheriting the land.

			And give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham.

			Genesis 28:4

			Pray for God to give things to you easily.

			Pray for easy possessions of blessings, houses, lands in the name of Jesus.

			Pray for fields that you did not plough.

			3. 	Pray for the dew of heaven, the fatness of the earth and plenty of corn and wine.

			And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the Lord hath blessed: Therefore, God give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine:

			Genesis 27:27-28

			The blessing of Jacob is so much that they neutralize the curses on the Jews. Therefore, pray for these blessings. Pray for the dew of the heaven, pray for the fatness of the earth and pray for plenty of corn and wine.

			4. 	Pray for the blessing of Jacob to let people serve you and nations bow down to you.

			Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother’s sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.

			Genesis 27:29

			Father, let nations yield to us. Let people serve us by the righteousness of Your Son Jesus Christ. We are also the seed of Abraham. Therefore, we ask for these blessings of Jacob in the name of Jesus.

			5. 	Pray for curses to be upon anyone who curses us and blessings on anyone who blesses us.

			Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother’s sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.

			Genesis 27:29

				Remember our enemies with a curse Lord, visit them with a curse.

			Let curses be upon anyone who curses us. Father, I curse my treacherous ones.

			Let blessings come upon anyone who blesses us and bless those who bless us Lord.

			Prayer for the Operations of the Holy Spirit

			The operations of the Holy Spirit mean the effect of the Holy Spirit.

			If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?

			Luke 11:13

			Pray that the effect of the Holy Spirit on you will be greater than ever before. Pray that the effect will be greater and greater.

			And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all.

			1 Corinthians 12:6

			1. 	Pray for a greater impact of the Holy Spirit.

			May it never be said that it is as though you have never been anointed before.

			Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain, upon you, nor fields of offerings: for there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil.

			2 Samuel 1:21

			May the effects of the anointing be stronger and stronger.

			2. 	Every area of your life will be affected by the Holy Spirit. Pray that what happened to Saul will not happen to you, but rather every aspect of your life will be affected by the Holy Spirit.

			May the Holy Spirit affect every area of my life in the name of Jesus. May the Holy Spirit affect my pastoral ministry, affect my teaching, preaching, prophetic, evangelistic ministry, my helping and giving ministry. May the Holy Spirit affect my marriage, my finances and my children in the name of Jesus.

			Prayer for the Overshadowing Effect of the Holy Spirit

			This means the Holy Spirit will envelope you. Overshadow means a brilliant haze.

			Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man?

			And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore, also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.

			Luke 1:34-35

			Pray to be enveloped in a brilliant haze in everything you do.

			Envelope my life with a brilliant haze. Envelope my teaching with a brilliant haze, envelope my preaching with a brilliant haze and envelope my counsel, especially my intimate counsel. What you did to Mary, do the same to me; envelope me.

			a)	BRILLIANCE means EXCELLENCE, MAGNIFICENT, DISTINCTION and ELEGANCE.

			Pray for the overshadowing of the Holy Spirit such that everything you do will be excellent, magnificent, distinct and elegant.

			a) 	BRILLIANCE means A CONSPICUOUS TALENT.

			•	Pray that a conspicuous talent will overshadow you.

				I receive my conspicuous talent. I pray for it, Lord.

			•	Your ministry is changing; your life is changing and your marriage is changing.

			b) 	BRILLIANCE means SPLENDOR.

			•	Pray that your ministry will be splendid. Pray for it, and receive it. You will be splendid because the Holy Spirit is overshadowing you now.

			c) 	BRILLIANCE means SUPERNATURAL INFLUENCE.

			•	You are receiving supernatural influence; this means anything you do will not be called ordinary.

				Pray for the supernatural influence.

			•	Pray that whatever shall be born of thee will have the supernatural influence. Whatever shall come out of you will have supernatural influence.

			And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore, also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.

			Luke 1:35

			Whatever shall be out of me shall have supernatural influence - my ministry and my counsel.

			May my children have supernatural influence in the ministry. I pray Lord, that the ministry born out of me shall have supernatural influence.

			Prayer for the Church

			One of the things that brings a blessing is obedience. If it had not been for the brilliant haze (of the Holy Spirit overshadowing the church), we would not have a church in Morocco, Egypt, Iraq, etc.

			Pray for the church.

			Father, let Your kingdom come.

			Prayer for God to Invest Something Supernatural in You

			Pray for God to put a brilliant haze on you so that you can also contribute supernaturally.

			Lift your hands and thank God. Your life is not going to end up as ordinary life.

			USE ME LORD!

			USE ME LORD!

			Communion Prayer

			Whatever mistake and the effect of the mistake may the blood cancel it

			You are crossing 70 years with ease

			May you be remembered in the throne room of heaven

			May your prayers make an impression in the throne room of heaven

			May your prayers be answered, may your heartfelt cry to the father be answered and may you not stand empty before God in the Day of Judgment

			May your hand be filled with fruits as evidence of the Holy Spirit in your life

			May the anointing of the Holy Spirit now cause brilliance in your life

			Your life is turning sharply away from disaster.

			Prayer to Bind Satan

			Satan, I bind you, I curse you and I extinguish you. I cast a shadow over you

			Bind any flying thing that is intimidating you

			Bind every unclean spirit

			Harassment is finished

			Bind anything that is poisoning your life bind it now

			Now whatever is your biggest problem, curse it now, it is withering now

			Father, we lift our hands and we say thank You.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 28




Prayer that Changes Things; Prayer on Angelic Activities & Prayer to Bind Demons




		 			And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistering.

			Luke 9:29



		 			When you pray, you change. The two keys here are PRAYED and ALTERED. Prayer is not about asking for milk and sugar. Prayer brings you closer to God. Let us pray for the Lord to give us a different life.

			Father, change things in our lives, alter things in our ministries as we pray.

			1.	Pray to know things

			And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

			Luke 11:9

			Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: let them shew the former things, what they be, that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come.

			Isaiah 41:22

			What are “the former things”? What are the former things in our ministries? What are the former things in our lives? Anything that happens has a latter end. Whatever has happened in our lives, we must consider and know the latter end.

			Father, we are seeking you. Whatever it is that has happened in my life, please help me to consider it and know the latter end. Show me the former things that I may consider them and know the latter end.

			In my ministry, show me the former things that I may consider them and know the latter end.

			In my relationships, show me the former things that I may consider them and know the latter end.

			In my marriage, show me the former things that I may consider them and know the latter end.

			Every holy hand lifted up, pray for wisdom and understanding about the former things, what they be, that you may consider them and know the latter end. Pray!

			Please show me how things are going to end - what is the wisdom, Lord? Let me have the right mind and the right thinking.

			2.	Pray for God to show you the future

			Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: let them shew the former things, what they be, that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come.

			Isaiah 41:22

			“Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen:”

			Pray for God to show you the future.

			Lord, whatever is the future, please show me.

			3.	Pray against curses

			And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without.

			And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.

			Genesis 9:22, 25

			This Canaan now comes under siege in Joshua 5.

			And it came to pass, when all the kings of the Amorites, which were on the side of Jordan westward, and all the kings of the Canaanites, which were by the sea, heard that the Lord had dried up the waters of Jordan from before the children of Israel, until we were passed over, that their heart melted, neither was there spirit in them any more, because of the children of Israel.

			Joshua 5:1

			So if you are there at that time (in Joshua 5), what are the former things that you should know? If you are Canaan, what are the former things?

			The former things are there in Genesis 9:21-27.

			And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard: And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent. And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without. And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father’s nakedness. And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him. And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren. And he said, Blessed be the Lord God of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant. God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

			Genesis 9:20-27

			Rahab escaped the curse in Genesis 9:22, 25.

			And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without... And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.

			Genesis 9:22, 25

			Everybody died in Jericho except Rahab and her family. Somehow, she knew what happened in the former times and she applied wisdom to escape the siege. She was able to escape the curse through the blood.

			Behold, when we come into the land, thou shalt bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which thou didst let us down by: and thou shalt bring thy father, and thy mother, and thy brethren, and all thy father’s household, home unto thee.

			And it shall be, that whosoever shall go out of the doors of thy house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we will be guiltless: and whosoever shall be with thee in the house, his blood shall be on our head, if any hand be upon him.

			Joshua 2:18-19

			The escape is by supernatural power.

			Plead the blood against any negative thing against our lives. Plead the blood against any historical curse against our lives.

			I plead the blood against any historical curse against my life.

			4.	Pray against passing deaths because of our sins and the sins of our fathers

			Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their iniquities.

			Lamentations 5:7

			Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.

			Psalm 51:5

			Remember, iniquity is orientation towards something negative.

			Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

			Romans 5:12

			The effect of the sin moved through the system.

			GOD ’s Message to me: “What do you people mean by going around the country repeating the saying, The parents ate green apples, The children got the stomach ache?

			Ezekiel 18:1-2 (MSG)

			My fathers have eaten green apples and I have gotten a stomach ache! What stomach ache do you have from what your fathers ate?

			Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it shall die.

			Ezekiel 18:4

			God is saying that we are not only going to have stomach ache from somebody’s green apple, but also from our own sins.

			Pray against any passing death because of our sins and the sins of our fathers. Our ancestors have sinned, our grandfathers have sinned and our fathers have sinned. Therefore, pray against any passing death because of the sins of our fathers.

			Whatever the mistake may be, Lord have mercy through the blood. I plead the blood now.

			It will no longer be said that our fathers have sinned and we are having stomach ache.

			Problems that Sin Brings

			1. It changes you personally

			2. It affects the people in your life

			5.	Pray for angelic participation

			As soon as He had finished speaking to Abraham the LORD departed, and Abraham returned to his place.

			Genesis 18:33 (NASB)

			After the end of the prayer in Genesis 18:33, the two angels showed up in Genesis 19. The angels of the Lord encamps those who fear Him (Psalm 34:7).

			Now the two angels came to Sodom in the evening as Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them and bowed down with his face to the ground.

			Genesis 19:1

			Abraham’s prayer caused the release of two angels.

			Father, make me sensitive to receive angelic participation in my life, in my home, in my marriage and in my finances. Open my eyes and open my ears.

			Keys to Co-operate with Angelic Activities in Your Life

			(Angelic Participation in the Journey)

			Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared.

			Exodus 23:20

			i. 	Become aware of angels.

			Beware of him, and obey his voice, provoke him not; for he will not pardon your transgressions: for my name is in him.

			Exodus 23:21

			ii. 	Obey the angel’s voice.

			But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary unto thine adversaries.

			Exodus 23:22

			iii. 	Everywhere you have the Holy Spirit you have angels.

			Angels have a lot to do with direction. Angels speaking to you have a lot to do with your circumstances. God begins to deal with your enemies when you have angels.

			For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites: and I will cut them off.

			Exodus 23:23

			iv. 	You advance little by little when angels are working.

			By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou be increased, and inherit the land.

			Exodus 23:30

			6.	Pray for your obedience to angels.

			Beware and obey. We must sense angelic guidance. We must be obedient to God. Obedience means you have faith and obedience means you love God.

			This is the turning point of my life and my ministry. My obedience to the angels is the turning point of my ministry.

			Our obedience will bring total deliverance.

			 And I will set thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert unto the river: for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand; and thou shalt drive them out before thee.

			Exodus 23:31

			The turning point is the obedience point.

			And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee.

			Exodus 23:28

			Hornets are like bees. Their work was to drive the enemies away.

			Father, whatever lessons we need to obey is in this pandemic, let us be obedient.

			Father, give me the grace to collaborate with angels. Give me the grace to be obedient.

			7.	Pray for the diversity of the operations of the Holy Spirit.

			Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain, upon you, nor fields of offerings: for there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil.

			2 Samuel 1:21

			It was as though Saul was not anointed when he died.

			Pray for the effect of the anointing.

			8.	Pray for the effect of the anointing to make you a leader.

			Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because the Lord hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?

			1 Samuel 10:1

			Pray for the leadership anointing, at least to lead yourself.

			Father, please give me the grace to lead, at least to lead myself. I ask for wisdom to lead.

			9.	Pray to recover the lost things in your life and ministry.

			When thou art departed from me to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel’s sepulcher in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy father hath left the care of the asses, and sorroweth for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?

			1 Samuel 10:2

			Whatever you have lost in the past, with the anointing upon your life now, may it come back in the name of Jesus!

			With the oil on my forehead, I receive the Holy Spirit now.

			10.	Pray for the anointing to go forward

			Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Beth–el, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:

			1 Samuel 10:3

			I am going forward because of the anointing. No more stagnation! I am going forward in my ministry, in my profession and in my finances. No more stagnation in the name of Jesus.

			Salmons swim against the river current to go forward to their origins to bear fruit. With the anointing upon you, you will go against any opposition to bear fruit.

			11.	Pray for people to salute, respect, regard and honour you

			And they will salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread; which thou shalt receive of their hands.

			1 Samuel 10:4

			Instead of insult, disrespect, disregard and despisement, you will be saluted, you will be respected, you will be regarded and you will be honoured.

			12.	Pray to prophesy because of the effect of the anointing

			And the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.

			1 Samuel 10:6

			The effect of the Holy Spirit is that you will be good preacher. You shall prophesy.

			13. Pray to turn into another man

			And the Spirit of the Lord will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.

			1 Samuel 10:6

			Instead of gossiping, you will be prophesying. You shall change into another man by the power of the Holy Spirit.

			Father, change me into a very fruitful person, let me change into very hard-working person.

			Prayer to Bind Demons

			Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour:

			1 Peter 5:8

			Note that the devil marks us to attack us - “Seeking whom he may devour.” Therefore, bind the demon that has zeroed in on you.

			May any plan of the devil, boomerang. Boomerang their activities Lord, may they fall into the pit that they have dug.

			We invoke holy fire on any demonic marking. I block them now. I bind personal attacks on my life and I bind every demonic mandate against my forward movement. Wickedness is defeated; all negative cycles against me, I cancel them now. All negative cycles against my family, I bind them now. All negative cycles against my children, I bind them now. All negative cycles against my marriage I bind them now. All negative cycles against my work, I bind them now.

			I cancel any legal reasons and permits against my life, my marriage and my children.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father, the more I seek You, the more I find You and I thank You

			As we come to the table I pray for healing for everyone, for all of us

			Have mercy on us Lord, save us from death, save us from wickedness and save us from a premature death, an unusual death, and an unexpected death

			Thank You for Your power, Your power to save from the funeral, from the coffin, from the mortuary, from the funeral home, from tragedy, from sadness and from sorrow without end

			We pray as we partake of the body of Jesus, whatever could not be found in Christ cannot be found in us

			Receive healing right now

			This is the body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			It will no more be said “The fathers have eaten green apples, and the children have stomach ache” but “the soul that sinneth, it shall die”

			So, Father, we know that we have also sinned and we deserve to have a sour taste in our mouth, so we come before you with the blood

			Let there be forgiveness, and mercy

			Let our mistakes be washed away even if men cannot forget

			By your supernatural power, cleanse us and give us a second chance

			We thank you for Your mercy, forgiveness, and grace

			The blood of Jesus - it clears you of all guilt, it speaks for you It is your deliverance. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Lift your hands for your blessing

			Whatever you could not do for yourself, may God do it for you

			Whatever you could not achieve with your own ability, through angels and the power of the Holy Spirit, may you achieve it

			Whatever fight you could not fight yourself, may He fight for you

			May angels fight for you in your life

			By superior and supernatural forces, receive the help of God to step forward in your life, to recover all, to be changed into another man, and to become the leader

			Receive power and receive strength

			 Any east wind that seeks to blow you out of your way, and out of your course, I rebuke it and say “the west shall counter the east wind and you shall be found in the same place”

			Now whatever seat God has given you, may you sit on it comfortably, may you not be dethroned

			May you never be moved from your chair, your place of stability, your place of authority, your position that God has ordained for you

			May nothing be able to remove you, except the hand of God and the power of God

			Receive life!

			I command your mouth to be filled with laughter

			I command your heart to be filled with joy

			I command your hands to be raised in triumph, for what great things the Lord has done for you in your life

			In the name of He who lay down in the grave, and rose up triumphantly over death, over the grave, over wickedness and over the evil of this world, in the name of Jesus, I pray and bless you

			May the Lord shine on you and make things work out for good for you.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 29




Prayer on Psalm 31; Prayer Concerning Your Ministry; Prayer for Humility & Prayer to Bind Demons




		 			And God said, Let there be light: and there was light. And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness. And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day... And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good. And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

			Genesis 1:3-5, 21-22

		 			The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night? The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come.

			Isaiah 21:11-12

			1. 	Because we pray, we won’t be afraid of what is coming in the morning. Therefore, pray and let the will of God be done in our lives.

			In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness.

			Psalm 31:1

			2. 	Father, let me not be ashamed by the decisions I have taken in my life.

			Whatever moves l have made in my life, let me never be ashamed. As I am serving You, let me never be ashamed.

			Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong rock, for an house of defence to save me.

			Psalm 31:2

			3. 	Whatever case you are in, no case is too hard for the Lord.

			Ask God to deliver you speedily and defend you.

			For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore, for thy name’s sake lead me, and guide me.

			Psalm 31:3

			4. 	Father, lead me and guide me.

			Lead me in my ministry, lead me in my finances, lead me in my marriage and lead me in my friendships and relationships. Whatever blinds me from following you please take it away.

			Lead me Lord! Every unleadable and unguidable spirit and attitude, please take it away.

			 Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for thou art my strength.

			Psalm 31:4

			5.	Pray for divine help to pull us out of a net.

			Whatever represents a net, you are coming out of it.

			Every private meeting to lay a net on me, every private conspiracy to lay a net on me, let me come out.

			Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth.

			Psalm 31:5

			Father, into Thy hand I commit my spirit. May I not be led by circumstances. Father I commit my life and I commit my soul to You.

			6.	Pray to hate lies and vanity.

			I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the Lord.

			Psalm 31:6

			A lot of things are not real, e.g., people drive cars that are not real and people live in houses that are not real.

			Pray that God will not let you be impressed with things that are not real. Pray that God will alert you in your spirit that you will not regard lying vanities.

			Deliver me from being impressed with mortgages.

			Deliver me from being impressed with people who speak “word salads”.

			Deliver me from being impressed with people who speak worldly wisdom.

			I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities;

			Psalm 31:7

			Whatever represents trouble, Lord consider me and help me. Father, know my soul in adversities, whatever be the trouble in my ministry, my finances and my marriage, please consider me that I may be rejoice again.

			And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large room.

			Psalm 31:8

			7. 	Pray for a large room in your ministry.

			Father, set my feet in large room in my ministry

			Father, set my feet in large room in my business(es)

			8.	Pray that every restriction in your life is taken away.

			If you don’t have a visa or status to travel, you cannot travel.

			Pray that God will take away all restrictions.

			Father set my feet in a large room. Father, give me a larger operating space, in my ministry, in my finances and in my business(es). Please give me a large room.

			Prophetically, I put my feet in many airports to preach in the name of Jesus!

			And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large room.

			Psalm 31:8

			9. 	Pray that you will not be shut up into the hand of the enemy.

			You will not be shut up.

			Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble: mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.

			For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.

			Psalm 31:9-10

			Verse 10 shows us how sin affects our health. Therefore, ask God to have mercy for your iniquities and forgive you for your sins.

			Have mercy upon me Lord.

			I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me.

			I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.

			Psalm 31:11-12

			10.	Pray that whatever is not good about you at close quarters, God will take away.

			Neighbours are those who know us closely. People can look at us and say, “I’d like to be like you.” Others who are near you, don’t want to be like you because they know you.

			Whatever it is about you that is not nice, ask God to take it away.

			Father, cleanse me from whatever is not nice about me at close quarters. Those who are close to us are not happy, but those who are afar are always praising us. Whatever is not nice about me, Lord extract it by the power of the Holy Spirit!

			I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.

			Psalm 31:12

			11.	Pray that anyone who has forgotten you will remember you.

			Like the chief butler who forgot Joseph and later remembered him, pray that your chief butler will remember you.

			Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.

			Genesis 40:23

			To be forgotten is not a nice thing.

			12.	Pray that when people are trying to find beloveds, you will be remembered.

			13.	Pray that when people are looking for somebody to promote, you will be remembered.

			14.	Pray that when people are looking for business partners, you will be remembered.

			15.	Pray that whoever ought to remember you, will surely remember you.

			Father, may I not be around and be like a dead man. May I not be forgotten like a dead man.

			Who have you also forgotten about that you should remember?

			Pray that God will bring to your mind, anyone that you should remember whom you have forgotten.

			Father, who have I forgotten that I should remember? Stir up my memories and cause me to remember anyone I have to remember.

			16.	Slandering is saying bad things about somebody behind their back. Slandering is the serpent seed in human nature.

			Pray against:

			 				Slandering your pastor.

				Slandering your ministry.

				Slandering the church.

				Slandering your marriage.

				Slandering your children.



			We declare holy fire against slandering, we declare divine judgment on slanderers, we tie the tongues of slanderers and we terminate the activities of slanderers.

			17.	Pray against premature death in any form.

			But I trusted in thee, O Lord: I said, Thou art my God.

			My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.

			Psalm 31:14-15

			Lift your hands and pray against any scheme, any plan to take away your life prematurely. Pray against any sickness, any pandemic, any accident, any bad news, designed to take away your life prematurely.

			Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise and praise thee? Selah. Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? or thy faithfulness in destruction? Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? But unto thee have I cried, O Lord; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee.

			Psalm 88:10-13

			Father there is no point for me to die at this time. Therefore, I come against premature death. I reject the spirit of death. I reject evil diagnoses.

			18.	Pray and ask God to shine His face upon you. A smiling face makes one look beautiful, especially with girls.

			Father, shine Your face upon thy servant. Please don’t turn away Your face from me, Lord.

			Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy mercies’ sake.

			Psalm 31:16

			Let me not be ashamed, O Lord; for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.

			Psalm 31:17

			Let me not be ashamed, Lord. Let the wicked be ashamed.

			Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.

			Psalm 31:18

			All lying lips that speak grievously against me, may they be put to silence. Tie their tongues O Lord, Father expose them.

			Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!

			Psalm 31:19

			Father, let me see goodness in my life, let me see goodness in my ministry and let me see goodness in my marriage. Father, I pray for your goodness to be released in my life.

			Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.

			Psalm 31:20

			19.	Pray for the presence of God in your life.

			And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.

			And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.

			And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORD made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

			And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand.

			And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian’s house for Joseph’s sake;

			and the blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.

			And he left all that he had in Joseph’s hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly person, and well favoured.

			Genesis 39:1-6

			The presence of God makes you prosper. The people that encountered Joseph, entrusted and left things to him; both in prison and in the palace. Pharaoh left everything to him.

			Father hide me in Your presence. Let Your presence be with me like It was with Joseph. Father, in the same way Joseph found grace in the sight of his master, may I find grace in the sight of my manager.

			20.	Pray that you will find grace in the sight of Jesus. May You be pleased with me, Lord; may I find grace in Your sight.

			Thank You Lord for making me overseer over Your special people. Thank You for Your presence in my ministry and thank You for Your presence in my life.

			And it came to pass after these things, that his master’s wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.

			But he refused, and said unto his master’s wife, Behold, my master wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand;

			There is none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because thou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?

			And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.

			Genesis 39:7-10

			Whatever wicked thing that would like to take away the presence of God from your life is aborted now.

			I separate myself from whatever wickedness is trying to attach itself to me.

			21.	Pray against great wickedness after you have been entrusted, anointed, appointed, promoted, elevated and have been introduced to a high place.

			Blessed be the Lord: for he hath shewed me his marvellous kindness in a strong city.

			Psalm 31:21

			Lord show me your marvelous kindness in this state and in this city. Show me O Lord.

			For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee. O love the Lord, all ye his saints: for the Lord preserveth the faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer.

			Psalm 31:22-23

			22.	Pray that you will love the Lord.

			That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love, May be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height; And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fulness of God.

			Ephesians 3:17-19

			23.	Pray that you will understand the length, the breadth and the depth and height of the love of God.

			24.	Pray that you will know the love of Christ. It is only by love that you can know something. You will never know God until you start loving God. You will never know an author’s books until you start loving the books.

			Lord, let me be rooted and grounded in Your love, I want to be rooted and grounded in Your love Lord.

			Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord.

			Psalm 31:24

			That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man;

			Ephesians 3:16

			Father, we pray for strength for the inner man. May I be strengthened in the inner man.

				Prayers Concerning Your Ministry

			1.	Pray to move on from your wounds.

			a)	Pray that personally you will move on in ministry to other places and countries.

			b)	Pray to move ahead on God’s calling. No more stagnation! I am moving on with great authority!

			c)	Pray to move on because the Lord told Moses to go forward.

			d)	Pray for courage to move on.

			Father, I ask for courage to move, courage to move to the next level of my calling.

			2.	Pray to go through any frightening door of your ministry.

			For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries.

			1 Corinthians 16:9

			A great door is open. Please give me the courage and the faith to go through, in the name of Jesus.

			3.	Pray for the Spirit or the mantle of humility.

			Humility makes you great in the kingdom of God. A manifestation of pride is when a person becomes too confident of something.

			Father, take “Luciferic” pride away from me,

			When you are humble, you will do whatever work that you are ask to do; cleaning gutters, cleaning toilets and going to villages for mission work, etc.

			4.	Pray that you will give your life to God.

			After you are saved, you cannot live for yourself anymore.

			Father, take my life, take my strength, take my car and take my money, etc.

			5.	Pray that you will be able to use the map of Matthew 16:25 to find your way to the mountain.

			For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.

			Matthew 16:25

			More Prayers for Humility

			A soul is healed by being with children; it cleans us of “kingliness” and “queenliness”.

			 				Father, I want to be like Jesus. I want the mind of Jesus who made Himself of no reputation. Father, take away “Luciferian” spirits, take away “Luciferian” traits and please take away any bigness from me.

				Being with children heals the soul; therefore, please give me a childlike attitude. Father give me a childlike spirit. I need this mantle of humility.



			And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven.

			Matthew 18:3

			Prayers to Bind Demons

			Anything that is following you like a pet dog, we bind it. Pray against distortion of your life and your life story.

			Pray against any familiar spirit and monitoring spirit - I bind you now.

			Every secret snake that has entered my dwelling place - I bind you now.

			Every record that is against me, by the blood of Jesus - I wipe you out.

			I resist all satanic agents to destroy my life. Every demon power, I bind your power. Go out of my house, out of my room now!

			Lift up your hands and declare judgment on every impending danger, declare judgment now.

			Lift your right hand and rebuke every devourer that has walked through your house, through your ministry and through your finances.

			Satan, I curse you now and I demand total recovery of everything that has been stolen from me.

			Any set back that is staring you in your face and every disappointment - we bind it.

			We demand cancellation of all setbacks in the name of Jesus!

			Thank God for the superior blood of Jesus that speaks better things than any blood.

			I curse the spirit of the frog that has come to my house.

			Victory for the children of God, victory for the house of God and victory for Zion.

			Communion Prayer

			The Red Sea speaks of the blood

			When the Israelites went through the Red Sea that was the end of Pharaoh

			Any chariots following me are stopping today

			This is the end of any dog following you; the blood marks its end

			We thank God that through the body of Jesus, we are healed

			Everything that is chasing us, we are delivered from it

			As we all partake of this holy meal, bless the families, bless the houses and bless the children

			Let no darkness, dark shadow, or bad news come to anyone in this family

			And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you, when I smite the land of Egypt.

			Exodus 12:13

			Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because thou, Lord, hast holpen me, and comforted me.

			Psalm 86:17

			The blood of Jesus is a token for good

			Father we lift up the blood and we say this is the blood, let this be a token for our good

			 A good thing is happening, our sins are forgiven and our lives are made new

			Our mistakes and crookedness are rectified by this token for good.

			The Prophetic Blessings

			According to Your Word, a good token has been released

			A good omen and a good sign have been released

			All the bad things of your life, through the blood of Jesus, they are converted into something better and higher

			Let the blood that flowed through Jesus, flow through your life

			Let every mistake of your past, every shame and every disgraceful part of you be washed clean

			May you be a new person because of the blood

			Have a new house, a new home, a new family, and a better existence because of the mercies of God through the blood of Jesus

			Whatever you couldn’t lay hands on as an unbeliever, may you lay hands on them because of the mercies that have been shown you

			Show us a token for good O Lord, that they which hate me may see it

			Let this blessing be on you and your whole family in Jesus’ Name.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 30




Prayer on Seeing Signs & Prayer to Anoint Eyes




		 			And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity;

			And she was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day.

			Luke 2:36-37

			There was also a prophet, Anna, the daughter of Penuel, of the tribe of Asher. She was very old; she had lived with her husband seven years after her marriage,

			and then was a widow until she was eighty-four. She never left the temple but worshiped night and day, fasting and praying.

			Luke 2:36-37

		 			This is the time for us to choose to serve God voluntarily because, how old will most of us be in the next 15 years? The choices we make with our free will are proof that we love God. We must serve God with fasting and prayers.

			Give thanks to God for the opportunity to serve Him.

			Lord, it is only a matter of time and we will stand before You. Therefore, we choose to serve You and we thank You for the call to serve You.

			There was also a prophet, Anna, the daughter of Penuel, of the tribe of Asher ... She never left the temple but worshiped night and day, fasting and praying. Coming up to them at that very moment, she gave thanks to God and spoke about the child to all who were looking forward to the redemption of Jerusalem.

			Luke 2:36-38 (NIV)

			Anna never left the temple she was there every day.

			Pray that your spiritual eyes will open like Anna so that when you see Jesus, you will “see”.

			Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I sent? who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the Lord’s servant?

			Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening the ears, but he heareth not.

			Isaiah 42:19-20

			Israel, listen to me! You can hear, but you do not understand. Look to me! You can see, but you do not know what you are seeing.

			Isaiah 42:18 (NIRV)

			You may see, but not know what you are seeing. The physical things we see, what do they mean to us?

			Pray that as you serve God day and night, you will see well. Pray that you will be spiritually sensitive.

			I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.

			Revelation 3:18

			Father, anoint my eyes with eye-salve so that I may see.

			Who is blind but my servant, and deaf like the messenger I send? Who is blind like the one in covenant with me, blind like the servant of the Lord?

			You have seen many things, but you pay no attention; your ears are open, but you do not listen.

			Isaiah 42:19-20 (NIV)

			Signs You Must be Able to See as You Become More Spiritual

			“Seeing” means you must be able to recognize them as a sign when you see physical things.

			1. 	The sign of a baby

			And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.

			Luke 2:12

			And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against;

			Luke 2:34

			Then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother: “This child is destined to cause the falling and rising of many in Israel, and to be a sign that will be spoken against,

			Luke 2:34 (NIV)

			2. 	The sign of humility

			All disloyal people are proud so a child is a sign of humility.

			Humility is harmlessness, a child is harmless.

			What is in your life that God is revealing to you?

			Pray that you will see the humility in a child and that you can also be like a child.

			Father teach me humility.

			3.	The sign of a baby and the sign of a child

			Babies and children are very attractive.

			Pray that you will be like a baby and a child and become very attractive.

			But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee;

			Acts 26:16

			To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me.

			Acts 26:18

			First Anointing of the Eyes

			My eyes have changed. I am seeing many things. I will observe as the Prophet has led me to anoint my eyes.

			Lord, open my eyes to see the signs of babies and children. Show me the sign of my purpose to make me a witness of the things that I have seen, and open my eyes to turn me from darkness into light.

			4. 	The sign of trouble

			The sign of certain bad things happening to other people - this is a sign that what has happened to me can happen to you too.

			Say, I am your sign: like as I have done, so shall it be done unto them: they shall remove and go into captivity.

			Ezekiel 12:11

			Tell them, ‘The things I’ve done are a picture of what’s going to happen to you. “ ‘So what I’ve done will happen to you. You will be forced to leave home. You will be taken to Babylon as prisoners.

			Ezekiel 12:11 (NIRV)

			Which bad things have happened to somebody, which are going to happen to you if you do not change or if you do the same thing?

			A sign makes you think but nothing makes a spiritually dull person think.

			Signs and wonders are not only healing and manifestations of the Holy Spirit. Human beings are walking signs.

			Father, let my eyes be open to see many things.

			5. 	The sign of a family

			Behold, I and the children whom the Lord hath given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel from the Lord of hosts, which dwelleth in mount Zion.

			Isaiah 8:18

			Sometimes a spiritual family is a sign. The family next door can also be a sign. A genuinely rich family can be a sign of a big and very beautiful house with unhappiness inside it.

			What is the sign to you?

			6. 	The sign of nakedness and poverty

			After Ashdod was captured, the LORD said, “My servant Isaiah has gone around barefoot and naked for three years. He is a sign and reminder to Egypt and Cush about what will happen to them.

			Isaiah 20:3 (NIRV)

			The following are bad signs:

			a) Mortgages

			b) Debts

			c) Building a house when your kids are in university or college is a bad sign. It is very difficult to build at that time. However, building in your 20s or 30s is a good sign because it is much easier to build at that time.

			Father, what sign are you showing me that can help me prophetically?

			The sign of poverty is one of the commonest signs.

			Father, show me Isaiah (Isaiah 20:3) type of signs.

			Please let me see any poverty sign and show me the way out.

			7. 	A sign of an unusual death

			And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas; in one day they shall die both of them.

			1 Samuel 2:34

			And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that the Lord hath sent me to do all these works; for I have not done them of mine own mind.

			If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men; then the Lord hath not sent me.

			Numbers 16:28-29

			Then Moses said, “What is about to happen wasn’t my idea. The LORD has sent me to do everything I’m doing. Here is how you will know I’m telling you the truth.

			These men won’t die a natural death. Something will happen to them that doesn’t usually happen to people. If what I’m telling you doesn’t happen, then you will know that the LORD hasn’t sent me.

			Numbers 16:28-29 (NIRV)

			Death is part of life; but an unnatural and unusual death is a sign.

			Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening the ears, but he heareth not.

			Isaiah 42:20

			“Seeing many things. they see not”. Open my eyes Lord.

			8. 	A sign of a man on a mission

			The word of the Lord also came unto me, saying, Son of man, thou dwellest in the midst of a rebellious house, which have eyes to see, and see not; they have ears to hear, and hear not: for they are a rebellious house.

			Therefore, thou son of man, prepare thee stuff for removing, and remove by day in their sight; and thou shalt remove from thy place to another place in their sight: it may be they will consider, though they be a rebellious house.

			Then shalt thou bring forth thy stuff by day in their sight, as stuff for removing: and thou shalt go forth at even in their sight, as they that go forth into captivity.

			Dig thou through the wall in their sight, and carry out thereby.

			In their sight shalt thou bear it upon thy shoulders, and carry it forth in the twilight: thou shalt cover thy face, that thou see not the ground: for I have set thee for a sign unto the house of Israel.

			Ezekiel 12:1-6

			Rebellion makes you blind and sin makes you blind.

			Father, show me the sign of a traveller, the sign of my future ministry.

			Second Anointing of the Eyes

			Father, thank You for the healing of blindness, from today may we see. We will have open visions.

			9. 	A sign of a desire of the eyes - a sign of a desire being taken away

			 It is an unusual thing when God strikes something we like with one stroke.

			Son of man, behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with a stroke: yet neither shalt thou mourn nor weep, neither shall thy tears run down.

			Ezekiel 24:16

			Whatever represents the desire of my eyes, please show me Lord.

			10. 	The sign of Jonas

			This is the sign of the U-turn and the sign of repentance.

			But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas:

			For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale’s belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.

			Matthew 12:39-40

			What is the sign of Jonas? This is a sign of a disobedient minister who experienced difficulties. It is a sign of repentance and a sign of the U-turn.

			But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord, and went down to Joppa; and he found a ship going to Tarshish: so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them unto Tarshish from the presence of the Lord.

			Jonah 1:3

			11. 	The sign of a letter

			This is a letter from our fruits. The fruit of a person is a letter speaking to you.

			You yourselves are our letter. You are written on our hearts. Everyone knows you and reads you.

			You make it clear that you are a letter from Christ. You are the result of our work for God. You are a letter written not with ink but with the Spirit of the living God. You are a letter written not on tablets made out of stone but on human hearts.

			2 Corinthians 3:2-3 (NIRV)

			God gives us a message in our hearts. What kind of message is your life giving?

			Pray for fruits that can speak.

			Pray for fruits that can read.

			Pray for fruits that everybody can see.

			Third Anointing of the Eyes

			David was anointed three times.

			But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.

			Hebrews 5:14

			And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand shall the priest put upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass offering:

			Leviticus 14:17

			None of us will be blind according to the prophetic declaration by the Prophet. The anointing breaks the yoke of blindness.

			Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening the ears, but he heareth not.

			Isaiah 42:20

			By this anointing (of our eyes) the verse - Isaiah 42:20 - shall not happen to us, but in seeing we will see.

			Prayer on Father / Son Relationships

			And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.

			Malachi 4:6

			1.	Prayer from “The Final Quest1” by Rick Joyner

			Our pride prevents us from having real spiritual fathers. All children are rebellious, self-centered and that is why they need spiritual fathers. It is always the greater who must lay down his life for the lesser, that is why Christ laid down His life for us. Fathers lay down their lives for children.

			2.	Prayer for God to turn the hearts of the children to the fathers and the fathers to the children

			And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.

			Malachi 4:6

			Lord, let all relationships between sons and fathers and fathers and sons that bring curses be made right today. Please turn the hearts of the children to their fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the children. Let there be a change in the sons and also a change in the fathers.

			Fathers are important, that we may live long.

			We are praying as sons and also praying as fathers.

			3.	Prayer to confess our sins, iniquities and transgressions

			Iniquity is an orientation towards a bad thing and transgression is crossing boundaries that we are not supposed to cross.

			Father, forgive me for iniquities, transgressions and sins. Please have mercy on me and forgive me.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father, we lift up the bread everywhere

			Thank You for dying for us on the cross and thank You for forgiving us

			We lift up the body and we receive the body of Jesus Christ

			He was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was on Him

			The Blood

			The wine is for our sins

			Father for our mistakes, we beg and pray

			You were wounded because we crossed the boundaries and we keep crossing

			You were bruised for iniquities because we are twisted and the chastisement of our peace was upon Him

			And by His stripes we lift the blood

			Father, let this neutralize our curse, our mistake, our sin, our transgression, and our iniquities

			Receive forgiveness, cleansing and healing of your life and of the terror and the horribleness of your sins, transgressions, iniquities, and mistakes, by the blood that speaks better things than that of Abel

			Receive it right now, in the name of Jesus Christ.

			Amen.

			1 Joyner R., (1996 ) The Final Quest, MorningStar Publications





CHAPTER 31




Prayer for the Influence of the Holy Spirit; Prayer for Forgiveness; Prayer for Wounds to be Healed & Prayer to Bind Snake Spirits




		 			Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened,

			And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased.

			Luke 3:21-22

		 			This is what it open heavens means - the Holy Spirit comes upon your life. He comes to change and influence your life, and then you hear the voice of God, so you may please God.

			1.	Pray for open heavens.

			Father, grant me open heavens, please let me hear from you.

			Please note that when you pray, the heavens open.

			Therefore, believe that as you are praying the heavens will open and you will hear the voice of God.

			And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased.

			Luke 3:22

			2.	Pray that you will please God.

			To be pleasing to a great person is a mystery.

			Later, the great anger of King Xerxes calmed down. Then he remembered Vashti and what she had done. He also remembered the royal order he had sent out concerning her. At that time the king’s personal attendants made a suggestion. They said, “King Xerxes, let a search be made for some beautiful young virgins for you. Appoint some officials in every territory in your kingdom. Have them bring all these beautiful young women into the fort of Susa. Put them in the special place where the virgins stay. Then put Hegai in charge of them. He’s the official who serves you. He’s in charge of the women. Let beauty care be given to the new group of women. Then let the young woman who pleases you the most become queen in Vashti’s place.” The king liked that advice. So he followed it.

			There was a Jew living in the fort of Susa. He was from the tribe of Benjamin. His name was Mordecai. He was the son of Jair. Jair was the son of Shimei. Shimei was the son of Kish. Nebuchadnezzar had forced Mordecai to leave Jerusalem. He was among the prisoners who were carried off along with Jehoiachin. Jehoiachin had been king of Judah. Nebuchadnezzar was king of Babylon. Mordecai had a cousin named Hadassah. He had raised her because she didn’t have a father or mother. Hadassah was also called Esther. She had a lovely figure and was very beautiful. Mordecai had adopted her as his own daughter. He had done it when her father and mother died.

			After the king’s order and law were announced, many young women were brought to the fort of Susa. Hegai was put in charge of them. Esther was also taken to the king’s palace. She was put under the control of Hegai. He was in charge of the place where the virgins stayed. Esther pleased him. He showed her how happy he was with her. Right away he provided her with her beauty care and special food. He appointed seven female attendants to help her. They were chosen from the king’s palace. He moved her and her attendants into the best part of the place where the virgins stayed.

			Esther 2:1-9 (NIRV)

			Every one of the ladies was beautiful, a virgin and every one of the ladies was going to go through beauty treatments. What pleased Hegai for Esther to be chosen? It’s a mystery.

			Esther pleased him. He showed her how happy he was with her. Right away he provided her with her beauty care and special food. He appointed seven female attendants to help her. They were chosen from the king’s palace. He moved her and her attendants into the best part of the place where the virgins stayed.

			Esther 2:9 (NIRV)

			Pray that God will reveal to you the mystery of pleasing Him.

			Lord, show me the mystery to please You. Please grant me open heavens so that I may please You.

			When you work somewhere, find out who is important to please. Esther pleased Hegai. Is Hegai the final person to please? Can Esther stop at Hegai because Hegai likes her?

			Pray that you will not settle at “Hegai” in your life, at your work place and in your marital home, where “the Hegai” is a visitor.

			If a visitor is pleased with you, is that important in your marital home?

			Pray that you will not settle at any Hegai in your journey of life.

			Father, deliver us from the Hegais: the alternatives that are not the ultimate.

			Esther pleased Hegai. He showed her how happy he was with her. Right away he provided her with her beauty care and special food. He appointed seven female attendants to help her. They were chosen from the king’s palace. He moved her and her attendants into the best part of the place where the virgins stayed.

			 Esther 2:9 (NIRV)

			Hegai gave Esther certain benefits:

			 				He provided her with her beauty care.

				He provided her with special food.

				He appointed seven female attendants to help her.



			But the question is: is Hegai the final decider? It is rather the king that Esther has to please in order to be chosen.

			Pray that whatever represents deception in our lives, the Lord will take it away. Pray and bind the spirit of deception. Pray and bind every “feel good” deception.

			Note that Esther obeyed and listened to Mordecai; but she also listened and obeyed Hegai.

			In the evening she would go there. In the morning she would leave. Then she would go to the special place where the king’s concubines stayed. She would be put under the control of Shaashgaz. He was the king’s official who was in charge of the concubines. She would never return to the king unless he was pleased with her. He had to send for her by name before she could go to him again.

			Esther 2:14 (NIRV)

			Pray that you will not end up under a “Shaashgaz” place; and that even when you end up there, the king will remember your name.

			Pray that your name will be remembered at any organization that you are become part of.

			Pray that your name will be remembered in this great church.

			The king liked Esther more than he liked any of the other women. She pleased him more than any of the other virgins. So he put a royal crown on her head. He made her queen in Vashti’s place.

			Esther 2:17 (NIRV)

			The king liked Esther more than he liked any of the other women.

			May this happen to us in heaven as we stand in front of our king.

			3.	Pray for God’s correction

			Pray for God to correct you so that you may serve Him perfectly. Pray that God will correct you that you may serve Him more perfectly.

			4.	Pray for the anointing of Apelles

			Salute Apelles approved in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobulus’ household.

			Romans 16:10

			Pray for the anointing, for the anointing of Apelles.

			Lord, grant me the grace of Apelles approved in Christ.

			5.	Pray for our marriages

			Is your marriage a yoke of love or a yoke of bondage?

			a)	Pray against every marriage that is rotten inside, but looks good outside.

			b)	Pray that deception will not be found in your marriage.

			c)	Pray against hypocrisy in your marriage.

			d)	Pray that your marriage will not be a yoke of bondage.

			e)	Pray that your marriage will not destroy your ministry.

				(We are now fighting marriage demons. We are praying against all the demons in our marriages.)

			f)	Pray that your marriages will experience the yoke of love.

			g)	Pray for any yoke of bondage to turn into a yoke of love.

			Every ill marriage is turning into a blessed marriage.

			Prayer for Forgiveness

			We need to pray for God to forgive us.

			Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation, and let righteousness spring up together; I the Lord have created it.

			Isaiah 45:8

			And he shall take the two goats, and present them before the Lord at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

			Leviticus 16:7

			There are two goats here. One goat is going for our sins.

			And Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the Lord’s lot fell, and offer him for a sin offering.

			Leviticus 16:9

			The second one is the scapegoat.

			But the goat, on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat, shall be presented alive before the Lord, to make an atonement with him, and to let him go for a scapegoat into the wilderness.

			Leviticus 16:10

			And when he hath made an end of reconciling the holy place, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar, he shall bring the live goat:

			And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions in all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat, and shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness:

			And the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited: and he shall let go the goat in the wilderness.

			Leviticus 16:20-22

			Sin must physically be taken away from us. We need to do something to physically take it away into the wilderness. You may need to physically dissociate yourself from bad friends or destroy certain devices that causes you to watch bad things.

			Pray for God to show you the “fit man” who is supposed to carry your scapegoat far away into the wilderness.

			Types of Sins

			i.	Sins - often has to do with our minds.

			ii.	Transgressions - these cross certain boundaries that we are not supposed to cross.

			iii.	Iniquities - these are orientations towards bad things, perversions, crookedness, twistedness etc. Some of us watched a movie and changed, and we have not been the same again.

			Prayer for Wounds to be Healed

			Wounds are a source of attraction for flies and demons.

			Whatever is a wound that is causing you to be crooked, transgressed and sinful, that wound is healing now in the name of Jesus.

			Remember we have a great capacity to be healed. Therefore, any demonic open wound that is causing demons to attack us is being healed now.

			We abort every demonic wound that is causing demons to be attracted to us.

			All open wounds from relationships, friendships and associations are receiving a healing band in the name of Jesus.

			We are uprooting all demonic deposits, demonic residues, demonic plantings and demonic fluids in the name of Jesus. Every planting is uprooted, every residue is uprooted and every emotional attachment is being removed now. We deny access to devils, familiar spirits and demons in the name of Jesus.

			The residues and deposits from interactions, associations and past relationships are being erased now. We renounce and discount them now by the blood of Jesus.

			Abnormalities in a Relationship

			 				Jealousy

				Criticism

				Revenge

				Self-centeredness

				Inability to forgive

				Inability to love

				Inability to trust

				Inability to flow

				Inability to enjoy

				Selfishness



			Prayer to Bind Snake Spirits

			Snakes swallow everything of their prey. When a snake is attacking your finances, it swallows everything; therefore, we bind any snake that is trying to swallow your finances, your job, your house and your car.

			We are coming out of any financial set back.

			Prayer Against the Spirit of a Viper

			Just a small injection of venom from a viper, and you can easily die.

			Pray against anything that is threatening your life.

			We cut off the head of every viper in our lives. I strike the head of any viper operating in my life.

			Prayer Against Black Mamba Snake Spirits

			This is the spirit of sudden death.

			Pray against every sudden attack in your ministry, marriage and finances.

			Pray against every surprise attack. I crush your head and I say be roasted by fire, I bind you and I strike you out from every sudden tragedy.

			Prayer Against Anacondas and Python Spirits

			This spirit squeezes you until you cannot breathe.

			We cut off every anaconda spirit that tries to squeeze life out of my marriage, out of my life, and out of my ministry.

			I bind and I strike the head of every anaconda and python. Whatever represents an anaconda and a python assigned to buffet me and to destroy me, I curse it and I terminate it.

			Prayer Against Cobra Spirits

			This spirit threatens you.

			Every threat to your ministry, to your marriage, to your children and to embarrass you, I bind it now. Anything that says,“You are finished” is boomeranging now - it will rather be finished. It shall fall into the pit it has dug. I renounce all threats, all actions against my life and ministry. I declare judgment on all such things.

			Prayer Against a “Very Small Snake”

			This represents the presence of evil that you cannot see easily. Any presence of evil in your home and life is ending now.

			Every undetected presence in my house is cursed. I uncover every evil and all conspiracies that are near me.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father I thank You as we come to Your holy throne, we sing a song of freedom

			A song of freedom from the devil and our oppressor, who shall no longer be able to oppress us because of this mighty cross, and the death of Jesus Christ

			Across the world, and to everyone watching, let power move

			Power that was released on the cross, healing power, saving power, resurrection power and power to destroy the works of the devil

			Let that power be transmitted right now to everyone that is part of this amazing Holy Communion meal.

			The Blood

			Superior power

			May power appear in your house

			May power appear in your room

			May power appear in your situation

			I close the grave, and I say you are not entering any grave; not now in the name of Jesus

			By the power distributed and shown by the blood of Jesus, may you be healed, forgiven, washed and cleansed.

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Lord as Your blood is distributed, thank You.

			I thank You that all the prayers we’ve prayed are released and answered

			Do more than we can think or imagine and let the blessings of the Lord enter every home

			Thank You for healing us from every virus

			Thank You that none of us shall be able to say that we died in the year

			Your power is at work

			Receive the power of God

			Receive healing

			Receive deliverance from devils, from snakes and especially from the presence of hidden evils in your life

			Whatever represents Satan and evil in your life and house, the blood of the Lamb roots it out. Death will not enter your house in the name of Jesus.

			Father thank You for forgiveness

			Your mistakes are washed away

			The scapegoat has physically carried all remnants, residues, and crookedness in your life, every satanic deposit has been taken far from your life

			Thank God for a show of power

			A show of power in your ministry

			A show of power in your life

			For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do shew the Lord’s death till he come.

			1 Corinthians 11:26

			Give Him thanks

			Thank You Lord

			Victory is in your right hand

			Victory is your portion

			Give Him praise

			Jesus, Master of my life

			I thank You, Lord.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 32




Prayer from Psalm 74; Prayer against Dragons; Prayer for Forgiveness and Mercy & Prayer for Fresh Anointing and Fruitfulness




		 			Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.

			Psalm 74:13

			Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

			Psalm 105:1

			But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.

			Psalm 92:10

		 			Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.

			Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs.

			Psalm 74:3-4

			Father lift up Thy feet against my enemies.

			The enemies are accusers, opposers, blasphemers and proud people etc.

			Pray against all types of enemies in the sanctuary of God.

			Father, lift up Your feet against them. We curse their tongues.

			We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is there among us any that knoweth how long.

			Psalm 74:9

			We want these three things that we see in Psalm 74:9 to manifest in our lives:

			(i) We want to be able to see signs like Simeon. Simeon 		saw “salvation” whilst others were seeing a baby (Jesus).

			For mine eyes have seen thy salvation,

			Luke 2:30

			(ii) We are going to have more prophets.

			Lord we need more prophets.

			(iii) We want to know “how long” something has to go on for: how long we have to live, how long a pandemic will last, and how long for these great flow prayers with the Prophet will continue.

			Lord, help me to be more serious about these great prayers.

			Father, help me to have an understanding of these three things.

			1.	Pray that we will see signs.

			Please open my eyes to see, Lord.

			2.	Pray that God will release prophets into the church.

			3.	Pray to know how long things will take, or last for.

			Father let me know “how long”.

			For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.

			Psalm 74:12

			God is working salvation.

			Pray that salvation will come in the midst of the earth.

			Prayers against Dragons

			Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.

			Psalm 74:13

			Lord, break the head of every leviathan spirit in my church. Crash their heads.

			1. 	Prayer to bind the strong grip of a dragon

			A dragon is something that holds us and does not allow us to go. It is something that is very strong. Perhaps a man has taken hold of your life, perhaps a woman has taken hold of your life or perhaps drugs has has taken hold of life. Sexual perversion is like a dragon. It is very strong and it does not let you to go easily.

			Rise up and bind all strongholds in your life -

			 				Fornication

				Bad relationships

				Drugs

				Pornography

				Sexual perversions



			We bind the strongholds in our lives in the name of Jesus. Whatever is strong and holding me down, I demand immediate release; I break its jaws.

			2. 	Prayer to bind every demonic surprise dragon

			Whatever is a demonic surprise, I am coming against it right now. Surprise of sudden death, surprise of being laid off work and surprise of sickness and illness.

			Everything that represents a surprise, I break it in the name Jesus. I will never be caught by a demonic surprise; I bind every surprise attack. I bind it in the name of Jesus

			3. 	Prayer to bind every silent and dangerous dragon near you

			It may be that there is somebody near you who is very dangerous, but he or she has not done anything yet.

			Whatever represents silent danger, I command it now to be uncovered. I demand immediate termination of every silent danger around and near me - whether it is a friend, a relative or a business.

			4. 	Prayer to bind every breaking-up dragon

			The dragon does not chew, it breaks you into two or tears you apart. Have you heard somebody saying, “I am broken?”

			Whatever it is that wants to break your life, break your home into two, break your marriage into two or your ministry, bind it now. Bind anything that destroys lives, ministry, marriages and homes.

			5. 	Prayer to bind fear-generating dragons

			A dragon usually presents as something that has huge teeth, so they represent fear.

			I am overcoming any fear, the fear of the unknown. For God has not given us the spirit of fear. I demand every dragon of fear that is holding me back to be terminated now. I demand my freedom from the jaws of the dragon.

			6. 	Prayer to bind every sharp-sighted dragon that has targeted you

			Another attribute of the dragon is its sharp eyesight. It uses its sharp eyesight to target its prey.

			I bind every sharp-sighted dragon that has targeted my ministry, marriage, children, finances and my job. I bind you now. I demand your immediate destruction in the name of Jesus.

			7. 	Prayer to bind every attack of violence - such as armed robbery, terrorist attacks, gunfire, violence, threatenings and rape.

			I bind every attack of the dragon. I demand my soul and spirit out of any dragon.

			The Prophetic Blessings (1)

			I see you escaping like a bird out of a snare

			I see you escaping from the grip of the dragon

			I dispossess all dragons

			You cannot have my life

			You cannot have my ministry

			You cannot have my wife

			You cannot have my children

			I demand their immediate release.

			I invoke holy fire

			I invoke the blood of Jesus

			I command you out my life and ministry

			I bind every demonic surveillance monitoring my life - I blind your eyes

			I bind every monitoring spirit monitoring my life and my ministry

			I bind every familiar spirit following me

			What wanted to break me, I break it now

			What wanted to finish me, I finish it now

			I break negative cycles

			I break negative curses

			I renounce all strongholds

			I renounce all evil attachments

			Divine escapes are happening to me now

			Divine escapes of the dragon is happening to me now

			For every grip and every trap, divine escapes is happening to me now!

			8.	Prayer against the dragon that is guarding our treasures

			One of the works of the dragon is guarding of treasures, preventing access to our treasures.

			Anything blessing that is mine which is being guarded by a dragon, I bind the dragon and release the blessing. I demand the immediate release of all my treasures that are being guarded by the dragon.

			Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter.

			Psalm 74:17

			God has set all the borders of the earth and NOT man.

			Pray against any border that any man says we cannot cross. We are lifting the border now.

			Father, lift up the borders for those who do not have permanent status in your church. All restrictions and limitations are being removed now in the name of Jesus.

			Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O Lord, and that the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.

			O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.

			Psalm 74:18-19

			Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.

			Romans 12:19

			Father deal with the wicked that wants to deal with the soul of Thy turtle dove. Lord remember Thy Word that says, “Vengeance is mine.” Therefore, deliver not the soul of Thy turtledove unto the hand of the wicked.

			Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.

			Psalm 74:20

			Prayer for Forgiveness and Mercy

			1.	Pray for forgiveness of sins and repentance in the ministry.

			2. 	Pray that God will forgive you for being a stumbling block.

			Lord have mercy on us for whatever is wrong with us in the ministry.

			Please cleanse me from my mistakes in the ministry, forgive me for lying to our pastors.

			3. 	Pray for mercy for touching the Lord’s anointed.

			Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

			Psalm 105:15

			Every way you and I have touched the Lord’s anointed, let’s pray and repent from it.

			Father, we are repenting from touching your anointed. Father, forgive us for doing your anointed harm - making sarcastic comments, dishonouring your anointed, returning evil for good done for us and disregarding their instructions and not listening to them. Forgive us Lord.

			And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch forth his hand against the Lord’s anointed, and be guiltless?

			1 Samuel 26:9

			Abishai wanted to kill Saul so that David would be king right away; but bringing somebody down does not make you go up. If you want to go up, just bring people up. We cannot become kings by killing kings.

			And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch forth his hand against the Lord’s anointed, and be guiltless?

			1 Samuel 26:9

			“Guiltless” means: innocent, pure and clean. So, “you are NOT guiltless” means: You are NOT innocent, you are NOT pure and you are NOT clean.

			4. 	Pray that God will cleanse you to become pure again in the ministry.

			Father, please forgive us. Please have mercy on us for killing the prophets that you have given us and forgive us for throwing stones at the kings in our lives. Please cleanse us to become pure.

			5. 	Pray for forgiveness for negative comments.

			Forgive me for any negative comments that I have made against the kings. Father, cleanse us from every negative comment. Please cleanse our hearts and our mouth from any negative comments.

			When you strike the anointed (the man of God), you end up striking the anointing.

			Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

			Psalm 105:15

			O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise thy name.

			Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily.

			Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually.

			Psalm 74:21-23

			Prayer for Fresh Anointing and Fruitfulness

			1.	Pray for fresh anointing

			But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.

			Psalm 92:10

			Lord, please anoint me with fresh oil.

			Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me.

			The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.

			Psalm 92:11-12

			Father, let the anointing permeate through my temperament, my shortcomings and through every challenge in my ministry and in my life. Let the invisible power come upon me. May the invisible Holy Ghost come upon my life now! The invisible force is supporting me and leading me now in the name of Jesus.

			2.	Pray to bear fruit in your old age

			They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing;

			Psalm 92:14

			Lord, anoint me such that I will bear fruit in my old age. Even in the day that I will be dying, I will die bearing fruit. Father, we give You thanks for anointing us, in Jesus’ Name.

			The Prophetic Blessings (2)

			The source of every strong grip is broken

			The source of demonic surprises is broken

			The source of silent danger is broken

			The source of things that break your heart is broken

			The source of wild fears is broken

			The source of any sharp-sighted thing targeting you is broken

			The source of every violent attack is broken

			Let’s thank God for this

			The source of impending and silent dangers is rebuked and cancelled

			The source of demonic surprises is negated and cancelled

			We defeat its effect

			Thank God that He has dealt with the source of every fear and with the sharp-sighted dragon

			Thank God that He has fought back, breaking the head of every dragon

			Monitoring and familiar spirits watching you are finished today

			Fresh oil has come upon your life

			Amen.





CHAPTER 33




Prayer for the Spirit of Counsel & Prayer for Your Apostolic Ministry




		 			They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel.

			Psalm 106:13



		 			The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.

			Psalm 25:9

			Father, cause me to hear good counsel. Father, give me good counsel.

			May I not forget good counsel, especially from my pastors. Please make me into somebody who waits for Your counsel.

			I pray for the Spirit of counsel for my life.

			I pray for the Spirit of counsel for my ministry.

			Prayer for the Spirit of Counsel in 9 Areas of Our Lives

			1.	Pray for the Spirit of counsel concerning whom to marry.

			Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost. Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, FEAR NOT TO TAKE UNTO THEE MARY THY WIFE: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost.

			Matthew 1:18-20

			The angel of the Lord gave counsel to Joseph not to be afraid to marry.

			Pray for the Spirit of counsel concerning whom to marry.

			2. 	Pray for the Spirit of counsel concerning your marriage and marriage issues.

			Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac. And the thing was very grievous in Abraham’s sight because of his son. And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.

			Genesis 21:10-12

			Abraham was not happy in his home at all. Sometimes your past mistake can mock your miracle.

			If we ask God to advise us concerning our current marriage, He will surely advise us.

			God’s advice is the best advice for our lives. Therefore, pray for the Spirit of counsel for whatever type of marriage you are in.

			3. 	Pray for the Spirit of counsel concerning every crisis in your life.

			And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he counselled in those days, was as if a man had enquired at the oracle of God: so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.

			2 Samuel 16:23

			Moreover Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this night:

			And Hushai said unto Absalom, The counsel that Ahithophel hath given is not good at this time. And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel. For the Lord had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the intent that the Lord might bring evil upon Absalom.

			2 Samuel 17:1, 7, 14

			When you are doomed, you do not listen to good advice. Counsel [bad counsel] can destroy your life.

			There are people who when they speak, and if you can discern, you will notice that it is actually satan who has spoken.

			4. 	Pray for the Spirit of counsel for blessed advice.

			And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me: And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.

			1 Samuel 25:32-33

			Whenever you experience wrong treatment in life, it becomes a crossroad in your life. Satan can take advantage of us when we are hurt. When David was hurt, satan nearly took advantage of him.

			5. 	Pray for the Spirit of counsel concerning new things you are entering into.

			But he forsook the counsel of the old men, which they had given him, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with him, and which stood before him:

			And he said unto them, What counsel give ye that we may answer this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke which thy father did put upon us lighter?

			And the young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou speak unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us; thus shalt thou say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my father’s loins.

			And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke: my father hath chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.

			So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king had appointed, saying, Come to me again the third day.

			And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the old men’s counsel that they gave him;

			And spake to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, and I will add to your yoke: my father also chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.

			Wherefore the king hearkened not unto the people; for the cause was from the Lord, that he might perform his saying, which the Lord spake by Ahijah the Shilonite unto Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

			So when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David? neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: to your tents, O Israel: now see to thine own house, David. So Israel departed unto their tents.

			1 Kings 12:8-16

			We need to pray for good friends because most of our counsel comes from our friends.

			Pray for good friends in your life.

			You usually have the same counsel as your friends therefore, you cannot ignore your friends. Friendship means you are in agreement.

			Counsel is very important. Absalom died because of bad counsel. Rehoboam was demoted and lost the opportunity to reign over Israel because of bad counsel.

			6. 	Pray for the Spirit of counsel concerning where to stay or where to be.

			On my way to the province of Macedonia, I advised you to stay in Ephesus. Well, I haven’t changed my mind. STAY RIGHT THERE on top of things so that the teaching stays on track. Apparently some people have been introducing fantasy stories and fanciful family trees that digress into silliness instead of pulling the people back into the center, deepening faith and obedience.

			1 Timothy 1:3-4 (MSG)

			7. 	Pray for the Spirit of counsel concerning whatever you are fighting.

			Every purpose is established by counsel: and WITH GOOD ADVICE MAKE WAR.

			Proverbs 20:18

			Pray for counsel to war a good warfare. Whatever you are fighting, receive wisdom to have the upper hand.

			8. 	Pray for the Spirit of counsel on how to finish what you have started.

			HERE IS MY ADVICE: IT WOULD BE GOOD FOR YOU TO FINISH WHAT YOU STARTED A YEAR AGO. Last year you were the first who wanted to give, and you were the first to begin doing it.

			Now you should finish what you started. Let the eagerness you showed in the beginning be matched now by your giving. Give in proportion to what you have.

			2 Corinthians 8:10-11 (NLT)

			What good work have you started doing? Pray that you will finish it.

			9. 	Pray for the Spirit of counsel concerning your life and death, such that even death cannot have victory on your life.

			In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live.

			And Isaiah said, Take a lump of figs. And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.

			2 Kings 20:1, 7

			It is good counsel to set your house in order. Perhaps you have to write a Will.

			 Prayer for Your Apostolic Ministry

			An apostle is someone who is sent.

			1. 	Pray for your apostolic ministry of “abasing yourself” (humility).

			Have I committed an offence in abasing myself that ye might be exalted, because I have preached to you the gospel of God freely?

			2 Corinthians 11:7

			2. 	Pray for your apostolic “non-chargeableness”.

			And when I was present with you, and wanted, I WAS CHARGEABLE TO NO MAN: for that which was lacking to me the brethren which came from Macedonia supplied: and in all things I have kept myself from being burdensome unto you, and so will I keep myself.

			2 Corinthians 11:9

			3. 	Pray for your apostolic region.

			As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this boasting in the REGIONS OF ACHAIA.

			2 Corinthians 11:10

			4. 	Pray for your apostolic love.

			Wherefore? because I love you not? God knoweth.

			2 Corinthians 11:11

			5. 	Pray against the works of the devil.

			Pray against whatever seems to:

			i. Accuse you

			ii. Tempt you

			iii. Resist you

			iv. Oppose you

			v. Shame you

			I declare judgement against all evils!

			Bind every demonic influence that is guiding and misleading you!

			Dismantle every plot for your premature death right now!

			 Every plan for my premature departure from this world is dismantled now!

			Every satanic disease for my mind and body and organs is aborted in the name of Jesus!

			I abort every mysterious disease in the name of Jesus!

			Bind and kill any serpent that has infiltrated your space and your life!

			I cut off the head of every invasion and penetration of demons and serpents in my life right now!

			Every trap is destroyed by fire!

			Every pit that has been dug for you to fall into it, we declare that the person who dug it shall fall into it in the name of Jesus!

			Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him.

			Proverbs 26:27

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			You are now interacting with the Holy Body of Christ

			Father, we present this bread as the body of Christ

			Let power come into our lives, giving us supernatural capability we never had before

			We receive the power in the blood and body of Jesus Christ

			We commune right now with the body of Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Your mistake will no longer be a reason for not doing well

			This blood washes away every mistake and every deviation that has occurred

			Every distraction, every wrong turn you’ve taken, and time wasting that has happened in your life, is neutralized by the blood

			The blood of Jesus is your portion right now. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			“And the Lord spoke to Moses saying, On this wise, you shall bless the children of Israel” (Numbers 6:23)

			May the Lord help you to do what you could not do before

			May you be supernatural

			May you have a supernatural component to your life and existence

			You will not perish like a goat

			You will not end prematurely

			The Lord bless you, and the Lord keep you

			The Lord make His face smile at you

			Receive a smile from God

			A smile of approval and recognition

			God recognizes you, knows you, and acknowledges your presence

			The Lord lift up His countenance

			May the countenance that was down looking be lifted up

			May the anger change to favour

			The Lord lift up His countenance over you and give you peace

			The Lord intercept your enemies

			The Lord encounter and meet with those that hate you

			The Lord send His angel to fight for you and defend you

			May the Lord contend against those that contend against you

			May the Lord send an agent and emissary to meet and intercept your enemy

			May the Lord send a bird to meet your enemy in the way

			May the Lord lift His countenance towards you and give you peace

			May the Lord remember you today

			May the Lord fight for you

			May the Lord help you

			You will not perish!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 34




Prayer from Psalm 106




		 			Praise ye the Lord. O GIVE THANKS UNTO THE LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever. Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? who can shew forth all his praise?

			Psalm 106:1-2

		 			Write down ten mighty acts that God has done for you and then thank Him for these mighty acts.

			1. Pray for God to help you keep the right judgement in everything you do.

			Blessed are they that keep judgment, and HE THAT DOETH RIGHTEOUSNESS at all times.

			Psalm 106:3

			It is not very easy to give judgement. Therefore, pray that God will help us not to misjudge.

			Pray for grace to have the right assessment.

			2. 	Pray for favour.

			Favor means you will be chosen. Pray that you will be liked and chosen. This is inexplicable.

			Remember me, O Lord, with the FAVOUR that thou bearest unto thy people: O visit me with thy salvation;

			Psalm 106:4

			3. 	Pray and confess your sins.

			That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance. We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.

			Psalm 106:5-6

			Confess these two sins:

			 				Pride

				Lust4.	Pray concerning what you do not UNDERSTAND and what you do not REMEMBER that you should remember.

Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; THEY REMEMBERED NOT the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.

Psalm 106:7





			Write down five things that you must remember. We provoke God when we do not remember and understand what He has done for us.

			Father, cause me to remember and understand the things you have done for me.

			12 Things to Understand

			1.	A verse in the Bible

			2.	A book that God has given you

			3.	A saying

			4.	A preaching message that you don’t understand

			5.	A show of love

			6.	A punishment that you are receiving that you don’t 		understand

			7.	A rejection

			8.	A rebuke

			9.	A show of anger

			10.	Understanding a blessing

			11.	Understanding a man

			12.	Understanding a woman

			Many of us do not understand our partners. Pray for the Spirit of understanding.

			Prayer about Provocation

			Provocation is something that instigates.

			Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but PROVOKED HIM at the sea, even at the Red sea.

			Psalm 106:7

			And the Lord said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? and how long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signs which I have shewed among them?

			Numbers 14:11

			Seven Provocations to Avoid

			1.	Do not provoke God by complaining against a leader.

			2.	Do not provoke God by complaining against the assistant.

			3.	Do not provoke God by complaining against the land where you have been sent to.

			4.	Do not provoke God by complaining about the condition of your family.

			5.	Do not provoke God by complaining that you are dying.

			6.	Do not provoke God by complaining by comparison.

			7.	Do not provoke God by complaining and wishing you had another leader.

			Prayer for God to Save Us from the Hand of Those Who Hate Us

			And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.

			Psalm 106:10

			Ten Things People Hate about You

			1.	Your face

			2.	Your presence

			3.	Your gift

			4.	Your message

			5.	Your success

			6.	Your prosperity

			Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbour. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit.

			Ecclesiastes 4:4

			7.	Your family

			8.	Your divine helpers

			9.	Your charm

			10.	Your advancement

			Prayer About Your Timing of Believing and Obeying

			And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left.

			Then believed they his words; they sang his praise

			Psalm 106:11-12

			7 Dimensions of Your Apostolic Ministry

			1.	Apostolic ministry as a delegate or an ambassador.

			Pray that you will fulfill this ministry.

			2.	Apostolic ministry as a planter of churches: This is the church planting dimension of your ministry.

			3.	Apostolic dimension of your ministry as an international person: This is the international dimension of your ministry. “I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to the wise, and to the unwise” - Romans 1:14.

			4.	Apostolic ministry to the wise.

			5.	Apostolic ministry to the unwise.

			6.	Apostolic traveling dimension of your ministry.

			7.	The last dimension of the Apostolic ministry is not being ashamed. Even if you have only two members, you will not be ashamed. Even if you have little children in your church, you will not be ashamed.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father as we stand before You, we thank You for the Body of Christ

			We worship You and we say,

			As we take part of this body

			May we experience Your goodness, love, and power

			Whatever is in the body of Jesus is now transferred and transplanted in us

			We receive transplants of every organ

			Now our bodies contain the organs of Jesus with everlasting life

			Thank You for Your mighty power

			The Body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know; that he might make thee know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man live. Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did thy foot swell, these forty years.

			Deuteronomy 8:3-4

			The Blood

			This cup is the cup of blessing

			Today what you are lacking is going to come into your life because a blessing is coming

			The Bible says “whatever is a blessing, destroy it not”

			Receive the cup of blessing, you will not be destroyed because of this blessing!

			The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ?

			1 Corinthians 10:16

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Father, thank You for Your Holy Word

			No one under the sound of my voice shall be destroyed, because of the blessing

			Thank You for the manna you’ve given us

			That we should know that there’s a supernatural component to our diet today

			As we have received this supernatural component, by which our raiment will not wax old and neither shall our foot swell, Let that blessing be imparted

			Healing for your body

			Weight loss for those who need weight loss

			Health for those who need health

			Recovery for those who need recovery and discharge from every hospital

			Be free from curses, demons, and affectations of your life

			In the name of Jesus, the Savior of the world

			I bless you as a father blesses his special children

			Receive your blessing

			As a father blesses his obedient son

			Receive the blessing of a father

			Receive the blessing of the cup of blessing

			Receive healing in your body

			Receive restoration

			You will not die prematurely or before your time

			Your children will see your hair going grey

			And your children’s children will appear

			The Lord help you and remember you

			As you woke up to pray, may the Lord cause angels to wake up and fight for you, fight against those that fight against you, and contend against those that contend against you, and help you in your darkness

			The Lord give you His voice behind you saying, this is the way walk ye in it

			Be comforted

			Be not discouraged

			For I am with you

			Your heart shall be filled again with joy and encouragement. For I do a new and great thing

			Whatever looks like a mountain shall be there no more

			For the enemies you see today ye shall see them no more

			I bless you with what man cannot take from you, for My hand is upon you.

			May your path grow brighter and brighter until the full day

			Receive light, grace, and help in the name of Jesus!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 35




More Prayers from Psalm 106 & Prayer Against Devils that are Likely to Follow You




		 			Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? who can shew forth all his praise?

			Psalm 106:2

		 			1.	Pray and acknowledge the mighty acts of God.

			Who can utter the mighty acts of the Lord? who can shew forth all his praise?

			Psalm 106:2

			We do not thank God well if we do not utter His mighty acts.

			Give Him thanks and mention the mighty acts of God.

			2.	Pray that you will do righteousness at all times.

			Pray that your life will be one that does righteousness at all times.

			Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times.

			Psalm 106:3

			Many people do righteousness when they are with their pastor. We all do righteousness when we are in church, but pray to do that at all times.

			Father, I need Your help and your grace to do righteousness at all times.

			3.	Pray for God to remember you with favour.

			Favour means being chosen WITHOUT any good reason.

			Remember me, O Lord, with the favour that thou bearest unto thy people: O visit me with thy salvation;

			Psalm 106:4

			God is the one who gives us favour. Leah was favoured. Mary was favoured and she was chosen to be Jesus’ mother. Life is such that at a point, it is favour that moves us to another level.

			The blessing of favour is that you cannot understand why you; it is to be chosen WITHOUT any apparently sensible reason.

			Pray and ask for favour. Pray that whatever favour you seem to have lost will be restored.

			And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.

			And the Lord was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.

			And his master saw that the Lord was with him, and that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

			And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand.

			And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the Lord blessed the Egyptian’s house for Joseph’s sake; and the blessing of the Lord was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.

			And he left all that he had in Joseph’s hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly person, and well favoured.

			Genesis 39:1-6

			In life, there reaches a place where you can only move forward if you are chosen.

			4.	Pray to see the good of the chosen of God.

			THAT I MAY SEE THE GOOD OF THY CHOSEN, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.

			Psalm 106:5

			Father, please let me see the good of thy chosen.

			A good thing that God gives to His chosen is humility.

			Anything that gives us humility is a great gift from God.

			5.	Ask God for the forgiveness of sin.

			We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.

			Psalm 106:6

			6.	Pray for mercy for the sins of your fathers and mothers.

			Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.

			Psalm 106:7

			What are the Sins of our Fathers?

			 				They understood not

				They remembered not

				They provoked Him (God)



			Therefore:

			 				Pray for the Spirit of understanding

				Pray that you will remember

				Pray that you will not provoke God



			Ten Things that Provoke God

			But if the Lord make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the Lord.

			Numbers 16:30

			These men (in Numbers 16:27-33, 35) met an unusual death - the way they died is a sign that they provoked God.

			1. Pray that you will not provoke God by rising up against God’s servants.

			Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men: And they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown: And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord?

			Numbers 16:1-3

			2. Pray that you will not provoke God by organizing people against God’s servants.

			And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord?

			Numbers 16:3

			3. 	Pray that you will not provoke God by accusing the man of God of exalting himself.

			Do not resent the man of God because of the greatness God has given him.

			Pray that dislike and resentment will not develop in you against God’s servants.

			And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord?

			Numbers 16:3

			Saying things like: “He is not always right, why do you have to listen to him all the time? Is he the only man of God?” - are all sayings against the man of God and are provocations to God.

			4. 	Pray that every dislike in you for a man of God will disappear so that you will not provoke God.

			Pray that resentment will not develop in you against God’s institutions.

			5. Pray that you will not provoke God by not valuing the opportunity to be called and separated.

			6. 	Pray that will not provoke God by not valuing the privilege to be chosen.

			Pray that will not provoke God by not valuing the opportunity to be nearby.

			7. 	Pray that will not provoke God by not valuing the opportunity to stand and minister. Your ministry can be preaching, serving, singing, arranging chairs, playing drums, etc.

			Seemeth it but a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel hath separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the Lord, and to stand before the congregation to minister unto them?

			Numbers 16:9

			These three things (points 5, 6 and 7) are all different spiritual events.

			Pray that you will understand these 3 spiritual events.

			Do you value the spiritual event to be called and separated?

			Do you value the opportunity to be nearby?

			Do you value spiritual events to stand to minister?

			8. 	Pray that you will not provoke God by murmuring against God’s servants.

			Pray that you will not murmur.

			What is Murmuring?

			Murmuring is grumbling and grumbling is speaking secretly and negatively. It is speaking in a negative, low, half-suppressed voice.

			For which cause both thou and all thy company are gathered together against the Lord: and what is Aaron, THAT YE MURMUR AGAINST HIM?

			Numbers 16:11

			Curse not the king, no not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.

			Ecclesiastes 10:20

			9. 	Pray that will not provoke God by refusing to come when you are called.

			And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab: which said, We will not come up:

			Numbers 16:12

			10. 	Pray that will not provoke God by accusing God’s servants of big things. Moses was accused of murder.

			Pray that will not provoke God by accusing God’s servants of stealing.

			Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us?

			Numbers 16:13

			And Moses was very wroth, and said unto the Lord, Respect not thou their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither have I hurt one of them.

			Numbers 16:15

			The unusual death of these men is a sign that they provoked God.

			But if the Lord make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the Lord.

			Numbers 16:30

			7.	Pray against whatever represents the Red Sea in your life.

			The Red Sea represents the greatest and biggest problem in your life.

			Nevertheless he saved them for his name’s sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known. He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.

			Psalm 106:8-9

			Write Down Your 3 Red Sea Problems

			Red Sea Problem 1:

			Red Sea Problem 2:

			Red Sea Problem 3:

			By faith, you will overcome and pass through your Red Sea.

			Faith is partnering with the invisible God to accomplish something impossible.1

			1See Chapter 26 of my book, Faith Secrets; (2019) Parchment House, Accra,

			By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned.

			Hebrews 11:29

			Seven Red Seas that You May Pass Through

			1.	A Red Sea of complicated problems

			2.	A Red Sea of marital problems

			3.	A Red Sea of your relationships

			4.	A Red Sea of your ministry

			5.	A Red Sea of sickness

			6.	A Red Sea of financial problems

			7.	A Red Sea of sin

			8. 	Pray for God to save you from the hand of him that hates you.

			And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.

			Psalm 106:10

			Ask God to save you from the hand of your enemy. Pray for God to deliver you from their traps.

			Prayer against Seven Devils that are Likely to Follow You

			These are seven devils that are most likely to be following you:

			i) Sickness

			ii) Quarreling

			iii) Divorce

			iv) Demon of early death

			v) Poverty

			vi) Breaking up of relationships

			vii) Breaking up a relationship with your pastor

			Demons of “Near Success Syndrome”

			1.	Pray against every snare

			Examples of the snare:

			i. 	Bad choices

			ii. 	Bad associations

			I disconnect myself now from every form of bad choice and bad association.

			Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth.

			Proverbs 6:2

			Every word, every thought, every speech that opens you up to evil, every discussion that has connected you to the devil, RENOUNCE IT RIGHT NOW; REJECT IT RIGHT NOW; CANCEL THOSE WORDS RIGHT NOW.

			I release myself from every snare, I release myself from every trap in the name of Jesus!

			2.	Pray against satanic covenants

			3. 	Pray against every access point that opens you up to demons

			4. 	Pray and activate a heavy perimeter around you

			5.	Pray and lift up a heavy perimeter around your life

			6.	Pray to cast down imaginations

			Every stronghold against your future, your children, your ministry, reject it now.

			Every “half-cow”, and every half animal that is after my life, I rebuke in the name of Jesus!

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father we declare this to be the body of Christ

			We thank You for this interaction with the body

			Whatever is in the body of Christ comes into us

			We receive and partake of the body of Christ

			We thank You for the blessing of this body

			We thank You for healing

			We thank You that the stripes of this body are ministering healing

			The stripes and the body of Christ are ministering healing

			Receive healing from every impossible disease

			And may your life be extended for an extra five years by the power and the communion of the body of Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Every bad choice you ever made,

			Every mistake, every snare you ever got into,

			May you escape through the Red Sea

			This blood represents the Red Sea of escape

			The Egyptians you see today, the enemies you see today

			You will see them no more

			The crossing of the Red Sea

			The blood of Jesus (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			I bless you to serve God beautifully

			Free of demon affectations

			Free of evil powers that seek to harass you and torment you

			I bless you to be a blessing

			As Abraham was a blessing, so shall you also be a blessing to many people

			From today people won’t call you blessed; they will say you are a blessing

			May the blessing of the Lord overflow so much, so throughout that your whole life, you are being a blessing to others

			Father I thank You that this child shall be called a blessing

			I bless all my sons and daughters with the blessing of a father

			May the blessing of the Lord be upon you until people call you a blessing, in the name of Jesus.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 36




Prayer against Things to Come & Prayer from Psalm 103




		 			And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said unto his disciples, Ye know that after two days is the feast of the passover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified.

			Matthew 26:1-2

		 			When Jesus said the Passover was coming, for Him it meant, treachery and betrayal were coming. So, for you as an individual, what “is coming” for you?

			What to Pray and Ask God For

			1.	Pray and ask God to let you know what is coming for you.

			2.	Pray and ask God to give you wisdom to know what is coming.

			3.	Pray and ask God to prepare you for what is coming.

			The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his master.

			Luke 6:40

			Betrayal has to do with trust, trusting somebody who turns to betray you. Betrayal can destroy you. If Jesus, our master was betrayed then we are not excluded from betrayal. But can we recover when we are betrayed?

			And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at hand; I will keep the passover at thy house with my disciples. And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them; and they made ready the passover. Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve. And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! it had been good for that man if he had not been born.

			Matthew 26: 18-24

			Twenty Prayers against Things to Come

			1. 	Pray against every form of betrayal at all levels.

			And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said unto his disciples, ye know that after two days is the feast of the passover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified.

			Matthew 26:1-2

			Betrayal can be in three levels:

			i. Betrayal from somebody above you.

			ii. Betray at your level.

			iii. Betrayal from somebody below you.

			2.	Pray against destruction from betrayal from those above you.

			3.	Pray against destruction from betrayal from those at your level.

			4.	Pray against destruction from betrayal from those below you.

			5.	Pray that you will never be a betrayer.

			6..	Pray that you will recover when you are betrayed. Betrayal leads to crucifixion and the destruction of your life. It changes your life. There can be betrayal in the church, betrayal in your marriage, betrayal at your work place.

				Everybody who has been betrayed has a potential to be destroyed. Therefore, pray against that destruction.

			7.	Pray that your personality will not be changed because of betrayal.

			8.	Pray that your temperament will not change.

			9.	Pray that you will fall into the arms of Jesus deeper than ever before. The answer to betrayal and destruction of life is Jesus!

			The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly. I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.

			John 10:10-11

			10. 	Pray against conspiracies.

			Then assembled together the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders of the people, unto the palace of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas, And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtilty, and kill him.

			Matthew 26:3-4

			11.	Pray that every conspiracy against your life will be rejected.

			Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt. Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha, aha.

			Psalm 70:2-3

			12.	Pray that those who have consulted and planned against you will be shamed and confounded.

			Father, let them be shamed. Let their plans turn back against them.

			Reverse every decision against your life.

			The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the Lord, and against his anointed, saying, let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us. He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the Lord shall have them in derision. Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure.

			Psalm 2:2-5

			We are the anointed today and people are having meetings against us.

			Father, vex every person who has a conspiracy against me. Scatter them! Vex them Lord! We reverse every negative decision and judgement.

			13.	Pray against tricks.

			To be tricked is to be fooled. It is a deceitful action. Pray that you will not be taken in by the tricks of the devil.

			But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtilty, so your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ.

			2 Corinthians 11:3

			14.	Pray against any attempt to fool you. It falls to the ground now. Every attempt to fool you falls to the ground now. Pray that you will not be fooled by mortgages.

			15.	Pray against anything, including every sickness that is not even diagnosed, that will try to kill you.

			And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtilty, and kill him.

			Matthew 26:4

			16.	Pray against every form of accident.

			17.	Pray against every diagnosis of cancer. Bind the demon of death.

			18.	Pray against sudden death.

			We cancel every up-and-coming accident.

			They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all the day long.

			Psalm 38:12

			19.	Pray against anything that seeks your life. Pray against every attack on your life.

			20. Pray to expect the Holy Spirit or an agent of the Holy Spirit.

			There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat at meat.

			Matthew 26:7

			This woman was an agent of the Holy Spirit. Since the Holy Spirit is a helper, anybody who helps you is an agent of the Holy Spirit.

			Pray for the Holy Spirit to come into your life.

			Pray also that an agent of the Holy Spirit will be fully manifested in your life.

			Seven Things the Holy Spirit, or an Agent of the Holy Spirit, Brings

			1.	The Holy Spirit, or an agent of the Holy Spirit, brings honour.

			2.	The Holy Spirit, or an agent of the Holy Spirit, brings comfort.

			3.	The Holy Spirit or an agent of the Holy Spirit brings something that makes you precious.

			4.	The Holy Spirit, or an agent of the Holy Spirit, brings a rebuke for those who do not honour you.

			5.	The Holy Spirit, or the agent of the Holy Spirit, brings a memorial or something to remember.

			6.	The Holy Spirit, or the agent of the Holy Spirit, brings money.

			7.	The Holy Spirit, or the agent of the Holy Spirit, brings a message from God. Jesus told the people to leave the woman alone, for she has done what she could.

			The agent of the Holy Spirit (the woman in Matthew 26:7) rebuked familiarity.

			Pray that all the above seven things will come into your life as you are praying for the Holy Spirit and the agent of the Holy Spirit.

			I pray for the seven blessings above.

			Receive these 7 things or blessings from the agent of the Holy Spirit.

			Pray against familiarity.

			You get used to what makes you great. The disciples did not honour Jesus.

			Pray! No more familiarity.

			4. 	Pray to expect a house, food and a man.

			And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at hand; I will keep the passover at thy house with my disciples.

			Matthew 26:18

			Father, send the man who is supposed to help me to have a house. I pray for houses, Lord.

			Lift up your hand and thank God for a house, food and a man. Thank God!

			5. Pray that you will be obedient in small things.

			And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them; and THEY MADE READY THE PASSOVER.

			Matthew 26:19

			Write down 5 things that the Holy Spirit has told you to do.

			Pray that the Holy Spirit brings these things to your remembrance.

			What small instruction has been given to you? What has God told you that you are not doing? Where has God sent you that you are not going?

			6. 	Pray about your company of twelve (who you sit with).

			Now when the even was come, HE SAT DOWN WITH THE TWELVE.

			Matthew 26:20

			There are 12 important people in your life. Some people should be part of your life! Others do not need to be in your life. Who are you sitting down with?

			Pray about your company of twelve.

			Lord, who do You want me to be with?

			7.	Pray that you will never be a betrayer.

			And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that ONE OF YOU SHALL BETRAY ME.

			Matthew 26:21

			Pray that you will never be a betrayer. Pray that you will not be a trusted person who breaks that trust.

			8.	Pray against every form of acting and pretence in your life.

			Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, MASTER, IS IT I? He said unto him, Thou hast said.

			Matthew 26:25

			Judas asked “Is it I?” when he knew Jesus was talking about him.

			Pray that you will stop acting and being unreal.

			9. 	Pray that God will take away every form of weakness, sickness and death that comes from not discerning the Lord’s body.

			For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord’s body. For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep.

			1 Corinthians 11:29-30

			10.	Pray that you will not touch or fight against any part of the body of Christ.

			And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.

			Acts 9:5

			Father, help me to recognise and discern Your body all the time. Help me not to fight Your body. Help me not to attack Your body. Help me not to kick against Your body.

			If you touch the Lord’s anointed, you are touching the head of the body. Expect to be weak, to be sick and even die.

			11. Pray that you will overcome offences in your life.

			Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad.

			Matthew 26:31

			An “offence” is to cause somebody to trip, it is to put something in the way of someone to make them go down.

			12. Pray against every form of pride in you.

			Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended.

			Matthew 26:33

			13. Pray for grace not to follow a bad example.

			Pray against every bad example that you must not follow. Pray that you will not follow a bad example, even if it is coming from your leader. Follow your leader as he or she follows Christ.

			Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples.

			Matthew 26:35

			Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately; and that night they caught nothing.

			John 21:3

			14. Pray about your Gethsemane ministry.

			Gethsemane means a place of prayer.

			Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder.

			Matthew 26:36

			Father. let it be born! A place where we go and wait on you. Please teach me how to go somewhere for three or more days to wait on you. Teach me Lord!

			Drawing closer to God depends on us and not God.

			Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.

			James 4:8

			Strength is coming to you as you wait on God.

			15. Pray about things that Jesus implied but He didn’t say (the unspoken instructions and the instructions by example).

			Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder.

			Matthew 26:36

			The unspoken instruction here is “Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder”. The unspoken part is normally what a person is doing. Jesus intended for the disciples to also pray as He was going to pray.

			Grant me divine wisdom to do what You have not said, but implied. Give me the divine wisdom to do the unspoken instructions. Help me Lord!

			Write down 3 things that you believe God is showing you to do.

			16. Pray that you will be part of the innermost group.

			And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy.

			Matthew 26:37

			Pray that you will be in the right group that God has ordained for you to be part of. Pray that you will be part of the innermost group. I receive all my groups that I am supposed to be part of.

			17. Pray that you will have prayer targets.

			And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour?

			Matthew 26:40

			Seven Prayer Targets

			1. Prayer target of one hour.

			2. Prayer target of three hours.

			3. Prayer target of seven hours.

			4. Prayer target of twelve hours.

			5. Prayer target of all night - a personal all-night prayer.

			6. Prayer target of an all-day prayer.

			7. Prayer target of one minute prayer.

			18.	Pray concerning whatever makes you sorrowful and heavy in your life.

			And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy.

			Matthew 26:37

			Prayer from Psalm 103

			1. 	Pray for forgiveness of the sins and iniquities that lead to sicknesses in your life.

			Bless the Lord, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits: Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases.

			Psalm 103:1-3

			2. 	Pray concerning what wants to destroy your life.

			Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies

			Psalm 103:4

			Any agent of destruction is blocked today. Ask for your crowns of loving kindness and tender mercies.

			3. 	Pray that your youth is renewed.

			Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle’s.

			Psalm 103:5

			Old things are replaced with new things. Replacement is avoided when your youth is renewed.

			4. 	Pray against oppression in your life.

			The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed.

			Psalm 103:6

			5. 	Pray that God manages His anger against us.

			The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for ever.

			Psalm 103:8-9

			6. 	Pray that God’s anger will be slow in coming and when it comes, it shouldn’t last forever.

			He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us.

			Psalm 103:10-12

			7. 	Pray that as God shows us His mercy, we will also show others mercy.

			Pray for the heart of the Father and the nature of God.

			8. 	Pray concerning the end of your life.

			Pray for the day when you’re gone. How will you go? May God guide us with wisdom with the realities that we are facing.

			Deliver us from premature death.

			As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more.

			Psalm 103:15-16

			9.	Pray that you fear God.

			But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon THEM THAT FEAR HIM, and his righteousness unto children’s children; To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.

			Psalm 103:17-18

			Your covenant is what you told God that you would do for Him. God’s commandments are His instructions to us.

			10. Pray to keep God’s covenants and commandments.

			But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children’s children; TO SUCH AS KEEP HIS COVENANT, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.

			Psalm 103:17-18

			11. 	Pray that you finish your ministry and receive the mercy of the Lord.

			But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children’s children; To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.

			Psalm 103:17-18

			12.	Pray that we will be ministers who make God have pleasure. God’s ministers are people that do His pleasure.

			Bless ye the Lord, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his, that DO HIS PLEASURE.

			Psalm 103:21

			13. Pray about your prophetic calling.

			Pray for the prophetic to increase in your life. Pray about every prophetic dream that keeps coming to you. Pray for the quality of your prophetic dreams to improve. Pray for high quality dreams.

			And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison. And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon them, and, behold, they were sad. And he asked Pharaoh’s officers that were with him in the ward of his lord’s house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day? And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations belong to God? tell me them, I pray you. And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me; and in the vine were three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes: and Pharaoh’s cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh’s cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh’s hand. And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: The three branches are three days:

			Genesis 40:5-12

			Pray and ask for interpretation of dreams. Pray that you will see prophetic visions.

			14. Pray that you will receive prophetic trances.

			He hath said, which heard the words of God, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance, but having his eyes open.

			Numbers 24:4

			And he became very hungry, and would have eaten: but while they made ready, he fell into a trance.

			Acts 10:10

			15. Pray for the prophetic burden of the Lord.

			And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the people, that shall say, The burden of the Lord, I will even punish that man and his house.

			And the burden of the Lord shall ye mention no more: for every man’s word shall be his burden; for ye have perverted the words of the living God, of the Lord of hosts our God.

			But since ye say, The burden of the Lord; therefore, thus saith the Lord; Because ye say this word, The burden of the Lord, and I have sent unto you, saying, Ye shall not say, The burden of the Lord;

			Jeremiah 23:34, 36, 38

			16. 	Pray for your prophetic speaking.

			But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to edification, and exhortation, and comfort.

			1 Corinthians 14:3

			May your speech be laced with prophecies.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father we come before You as we take this bread, forgive our sins

			As we receive this communion, we thank You that this is the body of Jesus Christ

			Let this body, broken for us do something supernatural in our lives

			Heal us! Bring us out of our sicknesses, pain, cancers, rashes, eye problems, depression, and sorrows

			Save us by the broken body of Jesus

			Let damnation fall upon him that touches Your body

			Those that tamper with it and irreverently strike at it, strike them Lord according to Your Word, in the name of Jesus. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			As many are weak, sick, and die

			May we be strengthened, be well, and live

			Because we come before this drink as the blood of Jesus, let the power of this blood enter every part of us

			Heal us and show Yourself strong

			Thank You for the blood that is answering for our iniquities, transgressions, and sins

			Cleanse us in Jesus’ Name. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessing

			May the Lord who called you bless you

			May you experience His healing in your life

			May you experience His strength in your life

			May all your prayers be answered

			May Jehovah intercede for you.

			At the judgement seat may you be one of those who do the pleasure of God

			May you not die prematurely, but may you live to declare the works of the Lord and to finish giving pleasure to the Father who called us to Himself

			The Lord help you, remember you, and bless you

			He who heals all your diseases and has forgiven your iniquities, blesses you today.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 37




Prayer Concerning Your Works and Labours & Prayer against Demonic Activities




		 			I know thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil: and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars.

			Revelation 2:2

		 			If God puts a flashlight on your works, what will He see? You may have some good accomplishments, but under scrutiny, your works may fall short.

			Prayer Concerning Your Works

			1. 	Pray about your works for God.

			Lord, grant mercies to the works I have been involved in and completion to all works I have started.

			Seven Characteristics of Good Works

			1. Is it costly?

			Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble; Every man’s work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man’s work of what sort it is.

			1 Corinthians 3:12-13

			Good works of gold will cost you something.

			Pray about the price you paid for your works.

			Lord, I am ready to start paying the price to have golden works.

			2. Does it cost money?

			What have your works cost you financially? Money consciousness has killed God’s work.

			3. Is it international?

			Gold can be used everywhere because it has value everywhere. Wood and grass do not have value everywhere.

			Pray for international works.

			4. Is it long lasting?

			The voice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field: The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it: surely the people is grass.

			Isaiah 40:6-7

			Gold lasts for generations but hay only lasts for a few weeks.

			Pray that your church and ministry will remain for years.

			5. Does it survive fire?

			Fires are troubles. Does your church survive a pandemic? Does your church survive “orangus”1?

			Pray that your ministry will survive fires.

			6. Is it truly valuable?

			One small ring can be worth more than a truck full of hay.

			Pray that your ministry will not just be impressive on the outside but will have real value.

			7. Will it withstand death?

			Pray that your golden ministry will withstand death.

			2. 	Pray that your works are a blessing to many.

			Works of hay only help a few cows but gold helps people all over the world.

			3. 	Pray that your golden ministry will shine.

			Shine through me Lord, so that my Ministry will touch many.

			1Author’s colloquial expression for rebels

			4. 	Pray that your works will shine bright and beautiful to God.

			5. 	Pray that each aspect of your ministry will be valuable.

			Every aspect of the ministry has a certain value. There is gold but there is also diamond and silver. God wants some diamonds, some gold, some silver.

			Prayers Concerning Your Labours

			I know thy works, AND THY LABOUR, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil: and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars.

			Revelation 2:2

			1. 	Your labour in prayers

			Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.

			Colossians 4:12

			God is looking at our labours in prayer.

			Pray about your prayer life.

			Lord, let my labour in prayer never cease.

			2. 	Your labour in the lay ministry

			Neither did we eat any man’s bread for nought; but wrought with labour and travail night and day, that we might not be chargeable to any of you

			2 Thessalonians 3:8

			Pray that your labour as a lay pastor will be more beautiful and abundant.

			3. 	Your labour in preaching

			Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honour, especially they who labour in the word and doctrine.

			1 Timothy 5:17

			Pray concerning your labour in the Word.

			4. 	Your labour of love

			Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, and labour of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and our Father.

			1 Thessalonians 1:3

			Most of ministry is a labour of love.

			Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labourers into his harvest.

			Matthew 9:38

			Pray that God makes you a labourer of love.

			5. 	Your labour as a minister

			For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and LABOUR of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that YE HAVE MINISTERED to the saints, and do minister.

			Hebrews 6:10

			Pray that God perfects your service as a minister.

			6.	Your women labourers

			And I entreat thee also, true yokefellow, help THOSE WOMEN WHICH LABOURED with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellowlabourers, whose names are in the book of life.

			Philippians 4:3

			Pray that God will release more women labourers.

			7. 	You labour with your own hands

			And labour, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we suffer it:

			1 Corinthians 4:12

			You do not always have to send people, some things you must do yourself. What is God saying that you should do yourself?

			Pray concerning the labour that you must do yourself.

			8. 	Your labour on hard ground

			I am afraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labour in vain.

			Galatians 4:11

			Sometimes work is very difficult because the ground is hard.

			Pray concerning fearful missions and people.

			9. 	Your labour in vain

			Except the Lord build the house, they labour in vain that build it: except the Lord keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.

			Psalm 127:1

			Come against every labour you are doing in vain.

			Pray that your labour will be accepted.

			Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him.

			2 Corinthians 5:9

			But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

			1 Corinthians 15:10

			Pray against These Six Demonic Activities against Your Life

			1. Embarrassment

			2. Hindrances

			3. Harassment - to disturb persistently

			4. Intimidation

			5. Deterrence - to prevent you from preaching and working

			6. Retardation - to slow you down, the spirit of delay

			I bind every evil power that is sent to enforce these things.

			I curse you now! I have victory over satanic works! I have victory over enforcing spirits!

			When you have light and revelation, the ruling of demons stops because they are the rulers of darkness.

			Now whatever represents light which you need to have, to prevent these demons from working upon your life, pray for that light now! Pray because this is the end of the rule of these rulers. The rule of the rulers of darkness is over.

			Lift up your hands and receive the Spirit of light. God is light. The word of God is light.

			Father, thank You for victory over demonic powers.

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Father, we present this holy bread before You

			We say now that this is the body of our Saviour Jesus Christ

			Thank You Lord for Your body which was broken for us

			By His stripes we are healed

			We receive healing and long life as we receive this holy communion today (The body of Jesus)

			As this body enters you, whatever could not be in Jesus cannot be in you

			What diseases could not be in Jesus cannot be in you

			A virus that could not be in Jesus cannot be in you

			Every virus dies!

			Every bacterium dies!

			Every sickness ends!

			Every pestilence ends!

			Every bad news comes to a conclusion in Jesus’ name!

			You are set free!

			You are healed, covered, and helped by the body of our Saviour Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			By one man, sin entered

			By one man sin, has been removed

			My mistakes, my father’s mistakes, my mother’s mistakes - may their sin, their iniquities, and their transgressions which are passed on to my generation and my children’s generation be neutralised by this cup, the cup of blessing

			Let the curse that has operated in every family be neutralised by this blood

			Let the sins that I have come into the world to perform, and my iniquities and transgressions be washed today and neutralised and their power be nullified by the blood of the Lamb that taketh away the sins of the world.

			May I be restored to God and recover from the effects of my sins, transgressions, and iniquities

			May my sins not be recounted to me anymore

			May my mistakes not be mentioned again

			Any demonic record that are accessed by devils and used against me are neutralised and wiped away by this powerful blood

			The blood that washes away and makes me white as wool

			I receive this cup of blessing and the blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessing

			May the Passover eradicate what was supposed to stop in your house to bring sadness and destruction

			I ask it to move on, out of your house in the name of Jesus Christ

			What visited you cannot stay, it must go

			What evil came to you cannot stay on

			You are cleansed, forgiven, and restored

			May the visitation of darkness end, and be replaced by the visitation of God

			Receive healing, receive blessing, receive restoration, and health from above

			These are the days of Elijah, days of supernatural involvement with the affairs of our life.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 38





Prayer on the Prophetic Direction in Revelation Chapter 3 & Prayer from Psalm 65




		 			Brethren, be not children in understanding: howbeit in malice be ye children, but in understanding be men. In the law it is written, With men of other tongues and other lips will I speak unto this people; and yet for all that will they not hear me, saith the Lord.”

			1 Corinthians 14:20 -21



		 			When you are speaking in other tongues, God can be guiding you. Value the guidance of the Spirit through speaking in tongues.

			But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

			Genesis 2:17

			When Adam and Eve ate the fruit, they died. They died by:

			i.	Not being close to God.

			ii.	Not being in God’s presence.

			iii.	Not hearing God’s voice.

			We are fighting to get to the presence of God and to hear His voice.

			To be put into effect when the times reach their fulfillment—to bring unity to all things in heaven and on earth under Christ.

			Ephesians 1:10 (NIV)

			The presence which was lost is coming back to your life. God’s presence is coming back to your life. His guidance is coming back to your life. His voice and participation are coming back to your life.

			Begin to pray!

			Prayer Concerning the Prophetic Direction in Revelation Chapter 3

			1. 	Pray that you will be delivered from a false reputation.

			And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know thy works, that THOU HAST A NAME THAT THOU LIVEST, AND ART DEAD.

			Revelation 3:1

			You may have a certain reputation among men, but in reality it’s not the truth. What do people think of you that is not true? God is showing you and correcting those things as you pray.

			2. 	Pray that the things in your life that are ready to die will be strengthened.

			Be watchful, and STRENGTHEN THE THINGS which remain, THAT ARE READY TO DIE: for I have not found thy works perfect before God.

			Revelation 3:2

			Pray for anything that is not good and ready to die. God has not found our works perfect.

			Have mercy on me, Lord.

			The voice of God is never the voice of only praises. It is a mixture of praise and rebuke.

			Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance?

			Romans 2:4

			3. 	Pray against fornication, adultery, and every form of defilement and contamination.

			Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which HAVE NOT DEFILED THEIR GARMENTS; and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy.

			Revelation 3:4

			Pray to come out of fornication and adultery. Pray to come out of all forms of defilements of fornication, unforgiveness, malice, etc.

			Keys to Escaping Defilements

			i. 	Total separation from the person you fornicate with – your “fellow fornicant”.

			Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house:

			Proverbs 5:8

			Decide to remove yourself far away from the person. Don’t do anything together with them.

			Pray for permanent and total separation from the person.

			Father, help us to separate ourselves from this “fellow fornicant”.

			ii. 	Obey instructions against fornication.

			And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me!

			Proverbs 5:13

			Pray that you will obey instructions against defilements. Pray about instructions.

			Father, whatever instructions that You have given to me, help me to obey it. Show me instructions that will keep me on the path of righteousness.

			iii. 	Do not despise, mock at and laugh at instructions and 		reproofs.

			We mock at the advice that is always given to us.

			In relation to marriage, we despise counsel and instructions.

			The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction.

			Proverbs 1:7

			Pray against the despisement of advice.

			There is no engineering problem that does not have an engineering solution. Therefore, there is no problem in life that does not have a solution.

			4. 	Pray concerning seven things you have received and heard.

			Remember therefore, how thou hast received and heard, and hold fast, and repent. If therefore, thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee.

			Revelation 3:3

			Pray that you will remember seven things that God has told you that you are not doing.

			Help me to remember what I have heard and received.

			5. 	Pray to overcome whatever problem that has been placed before you.

			If you don’t have any problem, then there is nothing to overcome. If you have a problem, then there is something to overcome.

			He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.

			Revelation 3:5

			Pray that you will overcome all your problems! There is no mountain that you cannot overcome! Whatever stands before you, pray and overcome it!

			Pray and overcome:

			 				the Mountain of marital problems!

				the Mountain of financial problems!

				the Mountain of darkness!6. 	Pray concerning your works - “I know thy works.”

And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.

Revelation 3:1

7. 	Pray for divine recommendation on earth and in heaven.

He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.

Revelation 3:5





			May I be recommended and mentioned in a good light in very important places.

			Prayer from Psalm 65

			1. 	Pray to perform every vow that we have made.

			Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Zion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed.

			Psalm 65:1

			Lord help me perform whatever vow I have made.

			Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it.

			Psalm 65:9

			Lord, visit me and water me until I look fresh. Father visit me, I need divine visitation. Please visit my ministry. Water my ministry. Let the river pass through my life.

			2. 	Pray for God to make us soft with showers.

			Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof.

			Psalm 65:10

			Lord, make me soft. Take away all my hardness. Take away all my unyielding attitude. By the showers of your Spirit, make us soft.

			3. 	Pray for God to crown the year with goodness.

			Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness.

			Psalm 65:11

			Father, superimpose the year with your goodness!

			4. 	Pray for our pastures or churches to be clothed with flocks.

			They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side. The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.

			Psalm 65:12-13

			Communion Prayer

			The Bread

			Through the body of Jesus your salvation is complete

			He said, “Forgive that you may be forgiven.

			Be merciful, that you may receive mercy

			Condemn not, that you may not be condemned.

			Judge not, that you may not be judged”

			Every condemnation, judgement, and lack of mercy in your life; through the blood of Jesus that represents the mercies of God, through the body of Jesus, that represents the goodness of God, may you partake of the goodness of God that comes through Jesus Christ

			Lord Jesus, we honour You and receive Your power as we receive of Your body

			Let power come into our lives, healing across the globe

			Whoever is a part of this prayer will receive healing. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			Your mistakes are in the cup

			They are washed away by the blood that cleanses and washes us from all our sins

			Be forgiven!

			You are not condemned, you are not judged,

			You are forgiven by the blood of Jesus

			Father, let Your healing flow across the globe

			Crown the year with Your goodness instead of fear

			Let there be healing and assurance of life

			Let there be healing and assurance of life! I ask it in the name of Jesus

			Let there be healing and assurance of life

			Thank You for healing and assurance of life

			Receive forgiveness!

			Receive your healing!

			Receive your great blessing in the name of Jesus! (Drink It)





CHAPTER 39




Prayer for the Spirit of Revelation & Prayer for the Blessing in Deuteronomy 28




		 			There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless. And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years. And it came to pass, that while he executed the priest’s office before God in the order of his course, According to the custom of the priest’s office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time of incense.

			Luke 1:5-10

		 			Elisabeth and her husband walked in all the commandments of God, but they still didn’t have a child. These are the mysteries of life. There is more to life than what meets the eye.

			1. 	Pray to God, come to Him with your life because we need His supernatural involvement.

			But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth.

			Luke 1:13-14

			2. 	Through the intervention of God, you will experience joy and gladness.

			But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John. And THOU SHALT HAVE JOY AND GLADNESS; and many shall rejoice at his birth.

			Luke 1:13-14

			3. 	Things happen when you come to the mountain of God. Therefore, expect supernatural things to happen in your ministry and life.

			Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest of Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.

			Exodus 3:1-2

			4.	Prayer brings angelic participation.

			This is Moses’ supernatural encounter during prayer on the mountain (Exodus 3:1-2). Everybody who knows God goes to God for the supernatural. From today anything in your life that is natural is changing to the supernatural!

			Reasons Why God’s Supernatural Intervention is Needed

			1. 	There are other forces which often have nothing to do with us.

			Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned: Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam’s transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come.

			Romans 5:12, 14

			The sin of Adam is affecting all of us. Death reigned from Adam to Moses - 28 generations. Sin doesn’t end with us. It keeps affecting all generations after us.

			Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their iniquities.

			Lamentations 5:7

			Pray to confess your sins and the sins of your fathers. Believe that as you pray, God will be merciful to you.

			Father, have mercy and forgive us our sins and the sins of our fathers.

			Pray and Confess Your Sins

			1. 	Pray to confess your sins of pride.

			Pride is like HIV. It manifests in different ways.

			2. 	Pray and confess your sins of disobedience.

			These are prayers that bring us closer to God.

			Whatever God has asked us to do in ministry that we have not done, let’s pray and ask for forgiveness.

			3. 	Prayer for forgiveness of lusts.

			This is not only about sexual sins, but also other desires that destroy us.

			This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him.

			Genesis 5:1

			And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:

			Genesis 5:3

			When Adam gave birth to Seth, his son, Seth, took Adam’s (sinful) image instead of the image of God. Each generation continues to sin because we keep reproducing after our sinful image.

			We lust after other people’s cars, husbands, wives, houses, jobs, etc. Therefore, we must pray for the forgiveness of lust.

			4. 	Pray for forgiveness of your debts.

			And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

			Matthew 6:12

			There are things that are not sins, but debts. God should forgive us for not giving our lives to Him. We owe Him our lives.

			Prayer for the Spirits of God

			1. 	Pray for the Spirit of revelation.

			This is prayer for light. This is what changes people.

			Father, reveal what needs to be revealed. Please don’t hide it from me Lord.

			Prayer for the Eight Spirits of Revelation

			1. 	The Spirit of revelation in the KNOWLEDGE OF GOD.

			The knowledge of God is your Christian experience.

			Cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers; That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him:

			Ephesians 1:16-17

			This prayer will help you to know all the experiences and benefits of Christianity. There are compartments of knowledge. Some people don’t even know that it is a nice thing to serve the Lord.

			Pray that whatever compartment of Christianity is hidden from you shall be revealed to you.

			2. 	The Spirit of revelation in TEACHING YOU.

			This is revelation in teaching you through life and ministry experiences.

			But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man. For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.

			Galatians 1:11-12

			What has God revealed to you? Whatever God wants to teach you, it is the Spirit of revelation who will teach you.

			Teachings, Lord! What you want me to learn, through painful and hard things? Teach me Lord. Lord what I have not learnt, please reveal it to me. Please show me.

			3. The Spirit of revelation that brings VISIONS and DREAMS.

			This is revelation of eternal things or the heavens.

			Your life is changing now as you are being caught up in the third heavens.

			It is not expedient for me doubtless to glory. I will come to VISIONS AND REVELATIONS of the Lord. I knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, (whether in the body, I cannot tell; or whether out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) such an one caught up to the third heaven. And I knew such a man, (whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell: God knoweth;) How that he was caught up into paradise, and heard unspeakable words, which it is not lawful for a man to utter.

			2 Corinthians 12:1-4

			4. 	Pray for an abundance of REVELATION.

			Pray for the spirit of revelation that leads to ministry.

			And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure.

			2 Corinthians 12:7

			5. 	The Spirit of revelation into MYSTERIES and SECRETS.

			Revelation come when the mysteries and secrets around us is revealed.

			Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the REVELATION OF THE MYSTERY, WHICH WAS KEPT SECRET since the world began.

			Romans 16:25

			There are mysteries and secrets which can help us in ministry and life.

			All secrets and mysteries that surround us are being revealed.

			6. 	The Spirit of revelation of things that MUST SHORTLY COME TO PASS.

			This is a revelation about the future.

			The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to shew unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John:

			Revelation 1:1

			7. 	The Spirit of revelation of JESUS CHRIST.

			This is the revelation of who Jesus is. Jesus is everything. There is nobody like Jesus.

			Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the REVELATION OF JESUS CHRIST;

			1 Peter 1:13

			And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.

			Revelation 19:10

			The testimony of Jesus is the Spirit of prophecy. Nobody raised the dead, healed the sick, fed 5,000 men, died and resurrected, and the list goes on. If you have the revelation that there is nobody like Jesus, you will never backslide from Christianity.

			8. 	The Spirit of revelation of JUDGEMENT.

			Most people do not have a revelation of judgement. Everyday God allows us to see and hear many things and these are all revelations.

			Therefore, thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest doest the same things. But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them which do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? But after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God;

			Romans 2:1-5

			Areas in Which You Must Have the Spirit of Revelation of Judgment

			1.	The revelation of not attacking your father.

			2.	The revelation of what it means not to honour your father.

			3.	The revelation of what it means not to honour your spiritual father.

			4.	The revelation of what it means to be disloyal, to be a traitor, to be a liar, to practice fornication, and the effect of not paying your tithe.

			5.	The revelation of studying hard when you are in school.

			6.	The revelation of debts. If we knew what it means not to be in debt, life would be different.

			Prayer for the Blessings in Deuteronomy 28

			1. 	Pray for the blessing to be above the nations.

			Pray shamelessly for the blessing to be on high just as Jacob did.

			And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments which I command thee this day, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth:

			Deuteronomy 28:1

			And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me.

			Genesis 32:26

			2. 	Pray for the blessing in the city and the blessing in the field.

			Pray for it shamelessly.

			Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in the field.

			Deuteronomy 28:3

			3. 	Pray for the blessing of the fruit of thy body.

			Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy cattle, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep.

			Deuteronomy 28:4

			Father, bless my family. Bless my children. Please bless my grandchildren.

			4. 	Pray for a blessing on your business, your profession, your job.

			Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy cattle, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep.

			Deuteronomy 28:4

			Pray that your business will increase. Pray that you will be promoted at your work place. Pray that you will not die while you are going to work.

			Father, bless the works of our hands.

			5. 	Pray for your basket and your store to be full.

			Your basket is your bank account, your wallet and your purse.

			Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store.

			Deuteronomy 28:5

			6. 	Pray for the blessing to come in and to go out.

			This is a blessing for traveling.

			Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out.

			Deuteronomy 28:6

			I will not die when I am going out! I will not die when I am coming in! I will not die in my journeys, by air, by sea or on land.

			7. 	Pray against your enemies who shall come against you.

			May they be smitten by the Lord!

			The Lord shall cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thy face: they shall come out against thee one way, and flee before thee seven ways.

			Deuteronomy 28:7

			Father, scatter them in the name of Jesus! Break them into pieces according to Your Word, Lord. I declare that my enemies are broken into pieces!

			Pray against any power that conspires, intimidates and blasphemes. Bind them! Bind all your mockers!

			We condemn every tongue that rises against us.

			8. 	Pray for a blessing on your storehouse and whatever you set your hand to do.

			The Lord shall command the blessing upon thee in thy storehouses, and in all that thou settest thine hand unto; and he shall bless thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.

			Deuteronomy 28:8

			Father, please bless whatever I am doing. Bless whatever I have set my hands to do. I ask for this blessing, Lord.

			9. 	Pray for God to establish you in holiness.

			Holy means special and separated.

			The Lord shall establish thee an holy people unto himself, as he hath sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God, and walk in his ways.

			Deuteronomy 28:9

			God is going to establish you as holy. You will not feel sick of yourself anymore. You will not feel dirty. You will not be a perverted person.

			Please establish me as a holy person unto You Lord. Thank you for establishing me.

			10. 	Pray for God to make you plenteous in goods, in the fruit of thy cattle and in the fruit of thy ground. Plenteous means “no lack”.

			And the Lord shall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy ground, in the land which the Lord sware unto thy fathers to give thee.

			Deuteronomy 28:11

			Let there be no want. Father, let there be no scarcity. Please let there be no lack, but rather let me be plenteous in goods and plenteous in the fruit of my body; plenteous in the fruit of my cattle; plenteous in the fruit of ground in the name of Jesus.

			11. 	Pray for God to open His good treasure in His season.

			The Lord shall open unto thee his good treasure, the heaven to give the rain unto thy land in his season, and to bless all the work of thine hand: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, and thou shalt not borrow.

			Deuteronomy 28:12

			12. 	Pray for God to cause you to lend and NOT borrow.

			The Lord shall open unto thee his good treasure, the heaven to give the rain unto thy land in his season, and to bless all the work of thine hand: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, and thou shalt not borrow.

			Deuteronomy 28:12

			13. 	Pray that you shall be above ONLY and NOT beneath, you shall be the head and not the tail.

			And the Lord shall make thee the head, and not the tail; and thou shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath; if that thou hearken unto the commandments of the Lord thy God, which I command thee this day, to observe and to do them:

			Deuteronomy 28:13

			I shall be above in ministry! My wife shall be above and not beneath in all her endeavours. My children shall be above in all their endeavours, in church, in school, etc.

			14. 	Pray and bind any particular devil that harasses you.

			Bind whatever personal devil is in your life, harassing and frustrating you. Bind it now in the name of Jesus!

			I say - out of my life! Out of my marriage! Out of my wife’s life! Out of my children’s life! I cast you out of my home! I curse you to the roots!





CHAPTER 40




Prayer for the Spirit of Grace and Supplications & Prayer for Our Ministries




		 			And I will pour upon the house of David, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplications: and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced, and they shall mourn for him, as one mourneth for his only son, and shall be in bitterness for him, as one that is in bitterness for his firstborn.

			Zechariah 12:10

		 			Pray for the Spirit of Grace and Supplications

			1.	Pray about your mistakes.

			Look upon the one whom you have pierced or hurt, which is God, and pray about it.

			2.	Pray about your calling.

			3. 	Pray concerning the things that you said you would do and have not done - failed promises.

			Pray and mourn about it now and not when you go to heaven.

			4. 	Pray about those whom you have hurt or pierced (marital relationships).

			Through the Spirit of grace and supplications you can change or recompense some of the hurts caused in your marital relationship. Normally we don’t feel the pain we cause to somebody.

			Lord, we pray for the opportunity to recompense for the pain we caused our partners. We pray for mercy. We pray for time, and for the spirit of grace and supplications.

			5.	Pray for other people that you may have hurt in your life.

			...and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced…

			Zechariah 12:10

			These are the reasons why curses come on upon us: being treacherous, disloyal, unfaithful to others - former boyfriends, former girlfriends, etc - people who were promised marriage but never were married. Their lives were changed when they were left. Mercy Lord!

			Lord, have mercy on us.

			Sometimes we do certain things to people as if we don’t have feelings ourselves.

			Lord, have mercy and forgive us. Lord, have mercy for all the mourning that we have caused others.

			The governor answered and said unto them, Whether of the twain will ye that I release unto you? They said, Barabbas. Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ? They all say unto him, Let him be crucified. And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out the more, saying, Let him be crucified. When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather a tumult was made, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person: see ye to it. Then answered all the people, and said, His blood be on us, and on our children.

			Matthew 27:21-25

			When you see what you have done, you will realise that you need grace and supplications.

			6. 	By the spirit of grace and supplications, pray and overturn generational curses.

			Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their iniquities.

			Lamentations 5:7

			Noah cursed Ham’s children. Noah’s hurt caused him to curse Ham’s children and affect children who were not born. That may also be the case with our mothers and fathers who have pierced or hurt somebody’s home. Therefore, we need grace and supplications.

			Thank you, Lord, for the intervention of the Holy Spirit for overturning all curses.

			7. 	Pray against conspiracies and meetings to take counsel against you.

			Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the Lord, and against his anointed, saying,

			Psalm 2:1-2

			Father, we pray against any conspiracy, any meeting to take counsel against our ministries, jobs, marriages and children. I reverse any counsel against my job. I reverse any conspiracy against my job. I cancel their plans.

			Lift your hands in judgement against conspiracies, meetings, decisions against you.

			Every decision to dismiss me from my job is not going to work in Jesus’ Name!

			Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces; and give ear, all ye of far countries: gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces. TAKE COUNSEL TOGETHER, AND IT SHALL COME TO NOUGHT; speak the word, and it shall not stand: for God is with us.

			Isaiah 8:9-10

			We condemn every tongue that rises against our jobs, marriages, children, ministry, finances in the name of Jesus.

			You may be a young lady whom a brother wants to marry. He may be discussing the idea with his friends but by the time they finish the meeting, the decision to marry you is cancelled. Therefore, pray!

			Lord, they shall take counsel together and it shall come to nought. Let them speak the word and it shall not stand. For God is with me.

			8. 	The prayer of grace and supplications secures angelic intervention.

			Pray to be sensitive to the guidance of the Holy Spirit.

			And when it was determined that we should sail into Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners unto one named Julius, a centurion of Augustus’ band. Now when much time was spent, and when sailing was now dangerous, because the fast was now already past, Paul admonished them, and said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of our lives. Nevertheless the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship, more than those things which were spoken by Paul.

			Acts 27:1, 9-11

			Paul admonished the people on the ship, yet the centurion did not believe what the Spirit revealed to Paul.

			9. 	Pray for direction and spiritual guidance.

			Pray that you will be very sensitive to the voice of the Holy Spirit.

			May I be very sensitive to Your voice, Holy Spirit. I pray for supernatural direction, supernatural leadings and supernatural navigations of the Holy Spirit.

			10. 	Pray against all voices that prevent you from hearing the voice of God.

			Nevertheless the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship, more than those things which were spoken by Paul.

			Acts 27:11

			There is a third voice influencing you and therefore, you cannot hear the voice of the Holy Spirit.

			Pray against whatever represents a third voice in your life. Pray against all other voices.

			Father, we silence alternative voices. We silence every “ship owner’s” voice. We pray against every misleading spirit.

			We pray against every advice that sounds good, but is actually bad. We curse the gentle voice that leads to destruction.

			Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou hast redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy strength unto thy holy habitation.

			Exodus 15:13

			11. 	Pray against committing such a terrible mistake like what the centurion did, of not listening to the prophetic Word from Paul.

			Pray that you will be sensitive to prophetic Words.

			And said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of our lives. Nevertheless the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship, more than those things which were spoken by Paul.

			Acts 27:10-11

			We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:

			2 Peter 1:19

			We do well by paying attention to the prophetic Word. When we are in the dark place, we do well by paying attention to the light that shines. What is the prophetic Word? The Bible.

			12.	Pray against the “Euroclydon” which comes for not listening to the prophetic Word.

			Pray against whatever represents “Euroclydon” in your life - ministerial Euroclydons, marital Euroclydons, financial Euroclydons and business Euroclydons.

			But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind, called Euroclydon.

			Acts 27:14

			We rebuke the Euroclydon! We rebuke ministry tornadoes, financial tornadoes and every economic Euroclydon. We bind them. We come out of any tempestuous wind.

			And when the ship was caught, and could not bear up into the wind, we let her drive.

			Acts 27:15

			“The ship was caught” means that the ship was trapped. They couldn’t control it. You are coming out of whatever ship you cannot control, right now, in Jesus’ Name! Now! Out of the chain! Out of the trap which you cannot come out of! Out of the pit!

			And we being exceedingly tossed with a tempest, the next day they lightened the ship; And the third day we cast out with our own hands the tackling of the ship.

			Acts 27:18-19

			These things will not happen to us! Our lives will not come to nothing in Jesus’ Name!

			But after long abstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them, and said, Sirs, ye should have hearkened unto me, and not have loosed from Crete, and to have gained this harm and loss.

			Acts 27:21

			It is angels that bring supernatural recoveries.

			There shall be no loss. If we have lost “Section A”, we will not lose “Section B”.

			And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there shall be no loss of any man’s life among you, but of the ship. For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am, and whom I serve, Saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must be brought before Caesar: and, lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee. Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer: for I believe God, that it shall be even as it was told me. Howbeit we must be cast upon a certain island.

			Acts 27:22-26

			Lord, let Your will be done and let my destiny be fulfilled. I must be cast upon a certain island. Thy will be done. I must testify before a wicked king. Lord, let Your will be done.

			The destiny and the plan of God may be to be cast you on a certain island.

			Thy will be done, Lord. I will achieve the maximum plan of my ministry. Thy will be done in my ministry, in my marriage, in my businesses and in my children’s’ life.

			And the soldiers’ counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim out, and escape. But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept them from their purpose; and commanded that they which could swim should cast themselves first into the sea, and get to land:

			Acts 27:42-43

			And the rest, some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass, that they escaped all safe to land.

			Acts 27:44

			And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island was called Melita.

			Acts 28:1

			“Melita” is Malta. Malta is a prophetic island.

			“Before Caesar” is the climax of your ministry.

			As we escape the wickedness of our lives, we will reach the climax of our calling in ministry.

			Therefore, let Your will be done Lord so that I will land on my Malta, Lord. We are arriving on the island of Malta on our way to the climax of our ministry.

			And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for they kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present rain, and because of the cold. And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand.

			And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm. Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god.

			Acts 28:2-3, 5-6

			Bind any demon that wants to attack you on your way to your destiny!

			As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him.

			Amos 5:19

			Bind whatever demon attacks your life, bind it now!

			In that day the Lord with his sore and great and strong sword shall punish leviathan the piercing serpent, even leviathan that crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.

			Isaiah 27:1

			Every demon that has attacked you is going to regret it!

			Satan, you will be surprised and you will suffer for assignments against me!

			Whatever represents a demonic serpent - be it:

			1. Serpent of opposition

			2. Serpent of fornication

			3. Serpent of immortality

			4. Serpent of drunkenness

			5. Serpent of laziness

			6. Serpent of procrastination

			We bind it in the name of Jesus!

			The end has come for anything that has fastened itself or tries to fasten itself to me. Every fastened cobra, back mamba, I behead that devil. I bind its power in the name of Jesus. Every demon of opposition! Every demon of alcoholism! Every demon of prostitution! Every demon of procrastination! We bind you! Every spirit of poverty! Every spirit of bankruptcy! Every spirit of stupid financial decisions! I bind you! Every demonic power to cause death, cancer, diabetes, we bind you.

			I declare judgement and war against any snake that is trying to fasten itself on me. I disconnect from you now. I reject you! I lift up a curse against you. I declare I am escaping now. I detach myself from you. I cut off the serpent that is trying to shorten my life and my destiny. Every contamination! Every encroachment! Every defilement! I cut you off! I renounce every shameful covenant. I detach myself from it now. Today marks the end of that ancestral and generational curse. Whatever power that makes me poor and in need all the time, I cut it off now.

			13. 	Pray to fulfil your ministry.

			And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard: but Paul was suffered to dwell by himself with a soldier that kept him.

			Acts 28:16

			People like Paul obeyed God and took Christianity to Rome. Rome was the secular centre of the world.

			We are praying to go to our Rome - the strategic place of your calling.

			Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you.

			John 20:21

			Prayer for Our Ministries

			(Ministries to Pray for in My Life)

			1. 	Pray for your prophetic or strategic calling or ministry.

			The dreams, the visions and the guidance, Lord let it come to pass.

			2. 	Pray for your teaching ministry, that you will fulfil it.

			For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat.

			Hebrews 5:12

			3.	Pray for your Pastoral Ministry.

			4.	Pray for your Apostolic Ministry.

			5.	Pray for your Evangelistic Ministry to the ends of the 	world.

			6.	Pray for your Helps Ministry.

			7.	Pray for your Giving Ministry.

			Pray to become one of the best givers in the church.

			Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.

			Romans 12:8

			The Prophetic Blessing

			Every holy hand lifted, thanking God!

			I call you a prophet

			I call you a teacher

			I call you a pastor

			I call you an apostle

			I call you an evangelist

			I call you a helper

			I call you a giver because you are a giver

			Lord, we lift our hand and we thank You

			Thank You for delivering us from tempestuous winds

			Thank You for delivering us from the Euroclydon

			Thank You, Lord

			Thank You for delivering me from all demonic snakes that tried to fasten themselves to my ministry, my marriage, my children, my job, my finances and my health

			Thank You Lord

			Now we thank You for Rome, the climax of my ministry, the epicentre of Christianity

			Thank You father

			May angels visit me in my dwelling place.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 41




Prayer for the Spirit of Prophecy; Prayer for a Blessing & Prayer about The Ministry




		 			And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.

			Revelation 19:10

		 			Prophecy is also a spirit. For the testimony of Jesus is the Spirit of prophecy.

			Pray for the Spirit of prophecy.

			1. The Spirit of prophecy is going to be the Spirit of visions and dreams.

			Therefore, as you pray now for the Spirit of prophecy, you are praying for the Spirit of visions and dreams. The greatest enemy of prayer is the spirit of slumber. Therefore, keep praying.

			Father, open our eyes and give us the Spirit of prophecy. Please let our visions and dreams be real and not something that are coming out of tiredness.

			And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am? They answering said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and others say, that one of the old prophets is risen again. He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God. And he straitly charged them, and commanded them to tell no man that thing;

			Luke 9:18-21

			You cannot tell traitors not to tell anyone certain things. They will say it.

			When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am? And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets. He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 16:13-17

			From these two scriptures (in Luke and Matthew), Jesus was praying for revelation and the revelation came to Peter. When we come to God in prayer, the Holy Spirit also comes with us and God begins to reveal things to us through the Holy Spirit. The Father Himself started revealing things to Peter.

			What must I know and what must be revealed to me? Lord, I ask for the Spirit of revelation.

			How the Spirit of Prophecy Works

			One of the ways through which the Spirit of prophecy works is through a burden.

			1.	 The burden of Nahum is the burden of Nineveh

			The burden of Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.

			Nahum 1:1

			2. 	The burden of Habakkuk

			The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see.

			Habakkuk 1:1

			Sometimes when something is weighing you down, it means it is a burden, a worry.

			3. 	The burden of Babylon

			The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.

			Isaiah 13:1

			4. 	The burden of Isaiah when King Ahaz died

			In the year that king Ahaz died was this burden.

			Isaiah 14:28

			5. 	The burden of Damascus

			The burden of Damascus. Behold, Damascus is taken away from being a city, and it shall be a ruinous heap.

			Isaiah 17:1

			6. 	The burden of Egypt

			The burden of Egypt. Behold, the Lord rideth upon a swift cloud, and shall come into Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it.

			Isaiah 19:1

			7. 	The burden of Dumah

			The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?

			Isaiah 21:11

			8. 	A burden means a spiritual desire

			Even though many of our desires may not be good, we must note that there are prophetic desires.

			Examples of Spiritual Desires

			1. I want to be missionary.

			2. I want to start a church.

			3. I want to witness.

			4. I want to support the Healing Jesus Campaign financially.

			These are all spiritual desires. If we don’t respect these things, we will not be used by God. Therefore, we must respect these spiritual desires.

			Prayer for the Spirit of Prophecy to Know the Will of God

			But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things.

			But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.

			1 John 2:20, 27

			What is the Most Important Thing in this World?

			The most important thing is the will of God. Your relevance comes by doing the will of God.

			And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever.

			1 John 2:17

			And the world passes away and disappears, and with it the forbidden cravings (the passionate desires, the lust) of it; but he who does the will of God and carries out His purposes in his life abides (remains) forever.

			1 John 2:17 (AMPC)

			When you do the will of God, you remain relevant, you remain important, you remain useful, you stay around and you stay forever.

			Father, make me relevant in the years ahead of my life. May my importance not be lost in the name of Jesus. May I do your will Lord.

			Our school books will not be important in just a few years. The Bible will remain very important for the rest of our lives.

			Prayer of Thanksgiving

			Giving thanks is the Spirit of prophecy.

			After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias. And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased. And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat? And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother, saith unto him, there is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many?And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand. And Jesus took the loaves; and WHEN HE HAD GIVEN THANKS, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.

			John 6:1-11

			Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks:

			John 6:23

			You must eat bread after you have given thanks.

			Whatever isn’t enough in your life, give thanks for it and God will glorify His name. Anything that is small in our lives, God through His supernatural power, will change it!

			How Our Prayers are Answered

			Prayer is an amazing thing. Prayer changes things. Prayer secures angelic intervention and angelic activity on your behalf.

			Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than TWELVE LEGIONS OF ANGELS?

			Matthew 26:53

			A legion is made up of 6828 angels. Therefore, “12 legions” means 12 x 6826 = 81,912 angels.

			Our prayers secure:

			i. Angelic intervention

			ii. Angelic activity

			iii. Angelic participation

			iv. Angelic involvement on our behalf

			Peter therefore, was kept in prison: but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the keepers before the door kept the prison. And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised him up, saying, Arise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands. And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals. And so he did. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me. And he went out, and followed him; and wist not that it was true which was done by the angel; but thought he saw a vision. When they were past the first and the second ward, they came unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city; which opened to them of his own accord: and they went out, and passed on through one street; and forthwith the angel departed from him. And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a surety, that the Lord hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.

			Acts 12:5-11

			“Prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him [for Peter].” Pray without ceasing.

			1. 	Prayer secures angelic intervention and releases what is bound into our lives.

			No prayer, no angels!

			Pray specifically for your beloved who has been held up somewhere to be released. If you are not married and you are praying this prophetic prayer, believe that it shall come to pass.

			God sent His angel to release Peter from the hands of Herod.

			And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a surety, that the Lord hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.

			Acts 12:11

			2. 	Prayer brings supernatural interventions.

			When you do not pray, everything becomes natural and everything natural is bad.

			Pray that anything that is tied up in your life will be released.

			Pray that the chains which have held up anything good for you would be released.

			Whatever belongs to me and has been tied up in the spiritual realm, Father, release it in the name of Jesus.

			The “Peter” of Your Life is Untied

			The “Peter” of my life is untied! The chains are broken! The limitations are removed! The stagnation in ministry is removed! I shall move forward in ministry! Financial stagnation is removed! I come out of every prison of want! I come out of every prison of lack! I come out of every spiritual prison!

			3.	Angelic interventions contribute to the binding of the devil.

			Any demonic harassment is ending now as you pray.

			And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth. And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image. And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it became as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in the sea. And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters; and they became blood. And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged thus. For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.

			Revelation 16:1-6

			4. 	Fair judgements are administered by angels.

			One of the reasons why we must leave vengeance to God is because we would not give people blood to drink as a form of revenge.

			An angel is being released to judge anyone who has been unfair to you.

			Father send angels to judge whatever is against us and needs judgement in our lives!

			Prayers for Blessings

			1. 	May God create certain circumstances that will separate us from certain people in our lives.

			The company we keep, affects us. Show me who you are moving with and I will tell you the kind of blessing you will have.

			There are three people who must be out of our lives. These people are the “third voice” in our lives:

			1.	The ungodly

			2.	Sinners

			3.	The Scornful or Mockers

			Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.

			Psalm 1:1

			Whoever represents the ungodly must be out of our lives! Whoever represents a sinner must be out of our lives! Whoever represents a mocker must be out of our lives!

			Pray because a blessing is coming into your life by the removal of the ungodly, sinners and mockers.

			We lift up our prayers and we say save us from the pathway of the ungodly, sinners and the scornful. Deliver us from the seat of the scornful or the mockers! They that mock my calling, my ministry, Father save me from them! They mock my calling, they mock my ministry, they mock my preaching, they mock my teachings, they mock my counsel, save me Lord and bless me so that I will see them no more. Bless me Lord so that I will not see them anymore. Let a divine separation take place Lord. Divinely cut them out of my life in the name of Jesus.

			2. 	Pray that you will fall in love with God and delight in His presence day and night.

			But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his law doth he meditate day and night.

			Psalm 1:2

			Many of us are not delighting in the Lord. When you love someone, you meditate about the person day and night.

			Pray for it and you will soon be a God-lover. That means you will love God.

			Father give me a love for Your Word. Give me a love for You, Lord.

			3. 	Pray for God to make you like a tree planted by a river.

			When you are planted by a river, you are very healthy and strong.

			And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

			Psalm 1:3

			Father we lift our hands to You and call on You to make us a tree planted by the river. If I am planted at a wrong place, may I be replanted at the right place. If I am planted at the desert, may I be replanted at another place by the river.

			4. 	Pray to bring forth fruit in your season.

			And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

			Psalm 1:3

			You will be in ministry when you are supposed to be ministry! You will marry when you are supposed to marry! You will prosper when you are supposed to prosper! You will have children when you are supposed to have children! Anything out of God’s time is being corrected now.

			5. 	Pray for “whatsoever he does shall prosper”.

			And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

			Psalm 1:3

			Father, let whatsoever I do prosper! Let my ministry prosper! Let me prosper in marriage! Let me prosper in my profession! Father help us to prosper!

			6. 	Pray against ungodliness in you.

			The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away.

			Psalm 1:4

			Pray that God shall have mercy on whatever is ungodly in us.

			Whatever is ungodly in us, please have mercy so that we will not be blown away like a chaff.

			7.	Pray against anything that brings withering in your life.

			Something that withers is cursed. Perhaps your father or your mother have sinned and you have borne their iniquities.

			Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their iniquities.

			Lamentations 5:7

			Whatever mistake that has come into my life and causes a withering in my life, please show me mercy. Have mercy Lord. There are a lot of unexplained evil and wickedness in your life. Things just don’t work out easily - poverty, difficulties, marital challenges, chronic singleness, stagnation in life, starting something and not finishing, please exempt us! Please exclude us, show us mercy Lord. Our fathers have sinned. Our mothers have sinned. Please don’t let us bear their iniquities!

			Prayer for Our Ministries

			1.	Pray to fulfil your personal Apostolic Ministry.

			Pray for your apostolic ministry.

			And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone;

			Ephesians 2:20

			2. 	Pray for the completion of your Prophetic Ministry.

			Pray for the completion of your prophetic ministry.

			Don’t despise yourself. You have the Holy Spirit and everything should not be all natural. Elijah was depressed and was lying down. But when an angel touched him, everything changed and he was able to continue his ministry and later on raise up Elisha in ministry (1 Kings 19).

			Our prophetic calling is coming to pass!

			3. 	Pray for your Evangelistic Ministry.

			The evangelistic ministry is the nicest part of all your ministry.

			Your evangelistic ministry is being fulfilled as you pray.

			4. 	Pray for your Pastoral Ministry.

			The pastoral ministry is the loving part of your ministry.

			So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs. He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep. He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, LOVEST THOU ME? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep.

			John 21: 15-17

			Lift your hands and intercede concerning your pastoral ministry. Pray for your shepherding anointing, your pastoral anointing.

			5. 	Pray for your Teaching Ministry.

			Pray about your teaching ministry.

			6. 	Pray for your Helps Ministry.

			This is the big area of all the ministries:

			i. Music

			ii. Administration

			iii. Personal assistance

			iv. Governmental

			Pray that you will finish your helps ministry.

			7. 	Pray for your Giving Ministry.

			Father, help me to be a giver in your house with simplicity and cheerfulness.

			Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.

			Romans 12:8

			Forgive me Lord for not giving what I should have given.

			8. 	Pray again for your father’s iniquities.

			Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their iniquities.

			Lamentations 5:7

			Thank you for saving us from our father’s iniquities.

			9. 	Pray to finish your ministry.

			There are so many things that can prevent us from finishing our calling. There are so many things that can prevent us from finishing our ministry.

			Lift up your hand and pray. You will finish what you have started. You are not going to die before you finish! You will finish every aspect of your ministry! Lift your hands and thank Him. Anything holding you back has given up because of angelic intervention!

			Prayer to Bind the Devil

			i. 	Pray against the Black Mamba.

			Bind the black mamba!

			Bind anything that is being sent to loosen anything in your life, to destroy your ministry. We reject and bind it in the name of Jesus.

			Every venom, every poison, every accusation, every spirit of intimidation, every spirit of death, every spirit of sickness, every bad news from a far country, I reject it and I bind it in the name of Jesus.

			ii. 	Prayer against [Spiritual] Dogs following us.

			A dog is a personal demon. It is a familiar spirit. It is a domestic spirit assigned to follow you.

			I bind any spiritual dog in the name of Jesus!

			Lift your hands and be grateful.





CHAPTER 42




Prayer from Psalm 22




		 			My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?

			O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent.

			But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.

			Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them.

			They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.

			But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.

			All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying,

			He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.

			But thou art he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother’s breasts.

			I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my mother’s belly.

			Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help.

			Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.

			Psalm 22:1-12



		 			1. 	God inhabits the praises of His people, therefore, thank Him.

			My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring? O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent. But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.

			Psalm 22:1-3

			2. 	Pray for deliverance.

			They cried unto thee, AND WERE DELIVERED: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.

			Psalm 22: 5

			3. 	Pray that God would deliver you from whatever is mocking you and holding you down.

			But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.

			All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying,

			He trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.

			Psalm 22:6-8

			A worm is just a weak insect but all your mockers and all those who laugh you to scorn shall be disappointed. God will deliver you from them.

			Lord, deliver us from those that have meetings about us. Lord, deliver us from those that conspire against us!

			4. 	Pray against spiritual animals in your life – e.g. spiritual bulls.

			MANY BULLS HAVE COMPASSED ME: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.

			Psalm 22:12

			5.	Bind any spirit that has made itself strong in your life or home, bind it.

			Begin to bind any strongman in your life. Curse whatever represents a strong bull in your life!

			Many bulls have compassed me: STRONG BULLS OF BASHAN have beset me round.

			Psalm 22:12

			Bulls speak of strength. Bulls are known for their brute strength.

			Examples of strong things to overcome:

			 				Sexual perversions

				Fornication

				Alcoholism

				Boyfriends and Girlfriends6.	Bind the power of bulls in ministry.





			Whatever you curse begins to wither.

			We terminate the activities of bull devils, bulls of poverty!

			Every overwhelming power, we curse you and we say, die!

			7.	Pray against spiritual lions.

			They gaped upon me with their mouths, AS A RAVENING AND A ROARING LION.

			Psalm 22:13

			The lions speak of fear. Bind any fear that has crippled you 	and made you weak.

			I curse every lion that brings a lot fear, backbiting, criticism 	and blasphemers!

			I curse whatever has opened its mouth against me that threatens my ministry, future, health and finances!

			I confront you!

			I bind your powers!

			Whatever represents a roaring lion, a ravening lion, we bind you.

			Let the judgement of God be upon you.

			8. 	Pray against spiritual dogs.

			For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.

			Psalm 22:16

			There are spiritual dogs. Dogs are spirits on assignment. They are personally assigned to you. They know you; they know your ways, they can smell you.

			I bind the dog spirit of laziness, wretchedness, dogs of pornography and personal quarrels.

			Today we decree and declare and terminate their assignments.

			I block every channel by which the devil has gotten access into my life, my home, my marriage, my finances in the name of Jesus. I demand immediate termination.

			Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.

			Save me from the lion’s mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.

			Psalm 22:20-21

			Your “darling” is the part of your life you hold dear.

			9. 	Pray against the spiritual unicorns.

			Pray an bind the unicorns.

			Save me from the lion’s mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.

			Psalm 22:21

			10.	Pray for great congregations.

			Pray for all churches everywhere to have great congregations, great preaching and great worship.

			MY PRAISE SHALL BE OF THEE IN THE GREAT CONGREGATION: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.

			Psalm 22:25

			11.	Pray to pay your vows.

			Is there any vow you made to God that you didn’t pay? Your tithes? Your offerings? Make a vow to give yourself to the Lord. Let’s give ourselves to the Lord.

			My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I WILL PAY MY VOWS before them that fear him.

			Psalm 22:25

			12. 	Pray for the spirit of meekness, humility and lowliness of mind.

			The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the Lord that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.

			Psalm 22:26

			The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.

			Psalm 25:9

			If no one teaches you anything, if no one guides you, if no one tells you to do anything then you are probably not meek any more.

			The meek shall be satisfied. Humility brings food. Humility gives jobs. The meek shall be satisfied with a husband.

			Pride is a spirit. A haughty spirit goes before a fall. Strong talking is a sign of pride.

			Deliver me from the spirit of pride.

			13. 	Pray for multinational congregations across the United Denominations1.

			All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.

			Psalm 22:27

			Let’s pray for the ends of the world.

			Pray for 190 nations in the world.

			Pray for churches in all these nations.

			Pray for crusades to be in many more nations in the world.

			The whole world must know about Jesus.

			14. 	Pray for His Kingdom to come.

			For the kingdom is the Lord’s: and he is the governor among the nations.

			Psalm 22:28

			Thy kingdom come, Lord.

			1 United Denominations is a church founded by the author, Bishop Dag Heward-Mills, with over three thousand churches worldwide

			15. 	Pray for preservation.

			All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.

			Psalm 22:29

			“None can keep alive his own soul.” This means nobody can make themselves stay alive. Staying alive comes from God.

			Lord, keep our souls alive for another 15 years to serve you!

			No evil will be diagnosed in my belly!

			No evil will be diagnosed in my chest!

			No evil will be diagnosed in my head!

			I am declared cancer free in the name of Jesus!

			16. Pray for your children to serve the Lord. Pray for your future generation to serve God.

			Our children will also serve him. Future generations will hear about the wonders of the Lord. His righteous acts will be told to those not yet born. They will hear about everything he has done.

			Psalm 22:30-31 (NLT)

			Please note that it is not automatic that as we are serving the Lord, our seed or children will serve the Lord.

			Pray that your seed shall serve God!

			Our future generations shall serve God!

			We are one of the seeds and therefore, we too shall continue serve God!

			Our children’s children shall serve God!

			Father, thank You that our children shall serve you.

			Our future generations shall serve You.

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Lift your hands and call for supernatural supplies

			Pray for supplies from heaven

			In this economic holocaust, God is the One we have to look up to

			A holocaust is a very terrible thing

			Therefore, believe in the Lord thy God and believe in His Prophets for your financial breakthrough

			Believe and thank Him for the Word that has been spoken over your supplies

			SAY AMEN TO THE PROPHECY OVER YOUR FINANCES IN THE MIDST OF FAMINE

			RETURN, RESTORE, RECOVER

			JESUS, IT IS HAPPENING

			SAY “JESUS I TRUST YOU, I BELIEVE IN YOU”

			LORD, WE SAY AMEN FOR EVERYTHING WE HAVE PRAYED FOR AND PRAYED AGAINST

			SAY AMEN! SAY AMEN!

			God will surely visit you

			Joseph said “God will surely visit.”

			And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, GOD WILL SURELY VISIT YOU, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.

			Genesis 50:25

			After this season, when people see you, they will see Jesus.

			Thank God for a major change in your life.

			It is time to ask God to forgive us our sins.

			Father, forgive me of my sins.

			Thank Him for mercy for the next fifteen years.

			GOD WILL SURELY VISIT YOU!

			Amen.





CHAPTER 43





Prayer from Daniel Chapter 9 & Warfare Prayer from Psalm 110




		 			In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of the Medes, which was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans;

			In the first year of his reign I Daniel understood by books the number of the years, whereof the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet, that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem.

			And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer and supplications, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes:

			And I prayed unto the Lord my God, and made my confession, and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him, and to them that keep his commandments;

			We have sinned, and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments:

			Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, which spake in thy name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.

			O Lord, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusion of faces, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and unto all Israel, that are near, and that are far off, through all the countries whither thou hast driven them, because of their trespass that they have trespassed against thee.

			O Lord, to us belongeth confusion of face, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against thee.

			To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we have rebelled against him;

			Neither have we obeyed the voice of the Lord our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets.

			Yea, all Israel have transgressed thy law, even by departing, that they might not obey thy voice; therefore, the curse is poured upon us, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of God, because we have sinned against him.

			And he hath confirmed his words, which he spake against us, and against our judges that judged us, by bringing upon us a great evil: for under the whole heaven hath not been done as hath been done upon Jerusalem.

			As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil is come upon us: yet made we not our prayer before the Lordour God, that we might turn from our iniquities, and understand thy truth.

			Therefore, hath the Lord watched upon the evil, and brought it upon us: for the Lord our

			God is righteous in all his works which he doeth: for we obeyed not his voice.

			And now, O Lord our God, that hast brought thy people forth out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and hast gotten thee renown, as at this day; we have sinned, we have done wickedly.

			O Lord, according to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, let thine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city Jerusalem, thy holy mountain: because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and thy people are become a reproach to all that are about us.

			Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and his supplications, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord’s sake.

			O my God, incline thine ear, and hear; open thine eyes, and behold our desolations, and the city which is called by thy name: for we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousnesses, but for thy great mercies.

			O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, hearken and do; defer not, for thine own sake, O my God: for thy city and thy people are called by thy name.

			And whiles I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the Lord my God for the holy mountain of my God;

			Yea, whiles I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation.

			And he informed me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding.

			Daniel 9:1-22



		 			Prayer from Daniel Chapter 9

			1.	Pray and confess your sins.

			And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer and supplications, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes:

			And I prayed unto the Lord my God, and made my confession, and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him, and to them that keep his commandments;

			Daniel 9: 3-4

			When we come to God, we cannot be pretentious. We have to come to God and confess our sins like Daniel did. We must not be too righteous. Rather we must confess our sins.

			Lift your hands and ask God for mercy.

			One of the sins we have committed is that we have not hearkened to His servants, the Prophets.

			Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, which spake in thy name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.

			Daniel 9:6

			2. 	We confess whatever represents confusion in our lives right now.

			O Lord, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusion of faces, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and unto all Israel, that are near, and that are far off, through all the countries whither thou hast driven them, because of their trespass that they have trespassed against thee.

			O Lord, to us belongeth CONFUSION OF FACE, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, BECAUSE WE HAVE SINNED AGAINST THEE.

			Daniel 9:7-8

			Confusion of faces come when we have not hearkened. Confusion comes when do not listen to the servants, the Prophets.

			What is Confusion?

			Confusion is a situation in which people are uncertain about what to do or are unable to understand something clearly.

			Confusion is the feeling you have when you do not understand what is happening. Confusion is a state in which many things are happening in an uncontrolled or disorderly fashion.

			We must not be afraid to make a U-turn like the prodigal son. This makes us great.

			Father, please take away confusion of faces. Be merciful Lord. Please take away the uncertainty, Lord. I have not listened Lord and therefore, take away the bewilderment.

			Whatever shame or confusion in our lives that have come about for not hearkening to the Prophet is being taken away:

			Confusion in our lives

			Confusion in our marriages

			Confusion in our profession

			Shame in our business

			Shame in our finances

			To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we have rebelled against him;

			Daniel 9:9

			3. 	Pray for mercies and “forgivenesses”.

			“Forgivenesses” means a lot of forgiveness. Time is mercy. Therefore, now that we are alive, God is being merciful.

			Yea, all Israel have transgressed thy law, even by departing, that they might not obey thy voice; therefore, the curse is poured upon us, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of God, because we have sinned against him.

			Daniel 9:11

			A curse is poured out for not obeying God. A great evil comes when we do not obey God.

			What has God told you to do personally that you have not done?

			As a church, what has He told us to do that we have not done?

			Lord, whatever you have told ME to do that I have not done, please forgive me.

			Lord, whatever I promised that I will do that I have not done, please forgive me.

			4. 	Pray concerning your church’s work for the Lord.

			Pray that the Lord’s churches would be established on top of the mountains.

			5. 	Pray against curses for not planting churches.

			Curses are unexplainable, repetitive evil.

			And Noah builded an altar unto the Lord; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And the Lord smelled a sweet savour; and the Lord said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake; for the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

			Genesis 8:20-21

			No more curse Lord!

			No more stagnation

			No more backwardness

			No more limitations

			Let the curse break, Lord.

			I break the curse of barrenness

			No more curses, no more curses!

			O Lord, according to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, let thine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city Jerusalem, thy holy mountain: because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and thy people are become a reproach to all that are about us.

			Daniel 9:16

			Father, turn away Your anger and fury from us.

			Turn anger and fury away from us and cause Your face to shine on Your sanctuary.

			6.	Pray for power.

			You see His power and His glory when you pray.

			Yea, whiles I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation.

			And he informed me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding.

			Daniel 9:20-22

			While Daniel was praying, power started to come. An angel is a special agent from God.

			To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary.

			Psalm 63:2

			Why Do We Want to Pray for Power?

			Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth.

			Psalm 110:3

			 				People are willing when they see power.

				Demons are willing to leave when they see power.

				Wickedness is ready to leave when it sees power.

				Power belongs to God.God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that POWER BELONGETH UNTO GOD.

Psalm 62:11

O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is;

Psalm 63:1





			Warfare Prayers from Psalm 110

			1.	Pray that your enemies will become your footstool.

			Whatever threatens and attacks you is an enemy.

			The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.

			Psalm 110:1

			God is reducing your enemies until they become your footstool.

			2. 	God is establishing us to rule in the midst of our enemies.

			The Lord shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.

			Psalm 110:2

			3. 	Bind any personal devils.

			They are called “familiar” spirits. Sometimes it is a sexual thing, depression, a divorce-prone woman or man, a quarrel, family curses, unwillingness to forgive, poverty.

			Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth.

			Psalm 110:3

			Whatever is a personal devil, bind it now!

			Cast it out of your life!

			Bind personal and familiar spirits!

			Rebuke any messenger of satan!

			I bind notorious familiar spirits!

			By the blood of Jesus, your assignments have ended!

			I declare your work has ended in my life, in my home, on my children’s life!

			I declare your work and your assignment are terminated!

			Your power over me is broken. It has ended!

			Whatever is personal following you like a dog, today it is ending and it has ended! Bind and cast it out!

			And lest I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations, there was given to me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure.

			2 Corinthians 12:7

			And to keep me from being puffed up and too much elated by the exceeding greatness (preeminence) of these revelations, there was given me a thorn (a splinter) in the flesh, a messenger of Satan, to rack and buffet and harass me, to keep me from being excessively exalted.

			2 Corinthians 12:7 AMPC

			Buffet means to maltreat.

			Whatever maltreatment you are receiving (it may be personal maltreatment), that is like a dog following you, it has ended.

			You demon of laziness, out of my life and children’s life!

			You demon of phlegmatism, out of my life!

			Strong presence of darkness, out of my life!

			Every form of darkness, I cast you to the bottomless pit!

			4. 	Pray to bring back youthfulness.

			Youthfulness represents strength and niceness.

			Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth.

			Psalm 110:3

			I bind all attitudes that represent old age!

			I bind every premature maturity and aging!

			The dew of my youth is back!

			5. 	Pray for God to make you a priest forever.

			The Lord hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.

			Psalm 110:4

			I am a Priest Forever. It is happening practically.

			The Lord has made me into a priest.

			I am a priest forever.

			I legislate it in the realm of the spirit

			I enforce it in my life because you have said in your Word, Lord.

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Lift up your hand and receive the tender love of God

			May your water fail not

			Father, we are thanking You for blessings

			The more you seek Him, the more you find Him

			The more you seek Him, the more you find answers

			Thank You Lord for the opportunity to pray

			Receive the special tender care of God

			You shall not wither

			You shall not dry up

			You will be like a watered garden

			He shall separate you

			He shall call you from among them

			His love is over you is like a banner

			May great generations shall come from your loins and your womb

			Thank You for watering us

			Thank You for watering Your church

			Thank You for watering we Your servants

			Thank You for watering we Your people

			Amen.





CHAPTER 44




Prayer for Ten Dimensions of Daniel’s Wisdom Which Made Him Survive National Crises




		 			Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the interpretation.

			Daniel 5:11



		 			If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?

			Psalm 11:3

			Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink; that continue until night, till wine inflame them.

			Isaiah 5:11

			And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden.

			Genesis 3:8

			I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star.

			Revelation 22:16

			What a blessing to have God coming to walk with us in the cool of the day, early morning. The Lord is the giver of direction. He will give us direction before the day breaks. He is the bright and morning star. How can we get lost during the day if He is giving us guidance and direction?

			Your life is taking a new turn because you have decided to pray and to pray early in the morning.

			1. 	Pray for Mercy and Forgiveness.

			Father, forgive us for our sins of neglect, disobedience, for judging others and dishonouring our fathers and mothers.

			Forgive us for stealing money and robbing you with our tithes. Forgive us for being disloyal,

			Forgive me for where I am living. I should have been living somewhere as a missionary.

			The Lord God hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary: he wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as the learned.

			Isaiah 50:4

			God wakes us up early in the morning and causes us to hear like the learned.

			God does business early in the morning. Therefore, thank God for waking you up in the morning to hear as the learned.

			Open my ears that I may hear, Lord.

			Wake up my ear that I may hear Lord as the learned and not as a fool.

			Wake up my spirit, Lord so that I will be sensitive and discerning.

			2.	Pray for Direction.

			Pray for supernatural guidance.

			Pray for supernatural direction.

			Life as we have known it is changed forever. Many things will not come back to the way we have known it, therefore, we need guidance.

			God is trying to show you and I, that, things have changed forever. We have to let the Holy Spirit to guide us.

			3.	Pray for Specific Guidance and Help from the Holy Spirit.

			This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the holy ones: to the intent that the living may know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basest of men.

			Daniel 4:17

			And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep.

			And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it.

			And, behold, the Lord stood above it, and said, I am the Lord God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed;

			And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.

			And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of.

			And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the Lord is in this place; and I knew it not.

			And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.

			And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.

			Genesis 28:11-18

			Lord, lead me as You led Jacob early in the morning. As a young man, You led him early in the morning. Please lead me Lord.

			Pray because prayer is changing your destiny.

			Guidance, Lord.

			Show me what to do Lord.

			4. 	Pray against National Crises

			Anything that involves the president of a nation is a national crisis. God can speak clearly and actually reveal things to you. Prayer will let you know what you didn’t know before.

			Prayer for Ten Dimensions of Daniel’s Wisdom Which Made Him Survive National Crises

			Father, as Daniel prayed one night and You showed him the solution to a national crisis, please show us the solution to national crises as we pray this morning.

			Belshazzar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his lords, and drank wine before the thousand.

			Belshazzar, whiles he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the golden and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem; that the king, and his princes, his wives, and his concubines, might drink therein.

			Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king, and his princes, his wives, and his concubines, drank in them.

			They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

			In the same hour came forth fingers of a man’s hand, and wrote over against the candlestick upon the plaister of the wall of the king’s palace: and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.

			Then the king’s countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubled him, so that the joints of his loins were loosed, and his knees smote one against another.

			The king cried aloud to bring in the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. And the king spake, and said to the wise men of Babylon, Whosoever shall read this writing, and shew me the interpretation thereof, shall be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.

			Then came in all the king’s wise men: but they could not read the writing, nor make known to the king the interpretation thereof.

			Then was king Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance was changed in him, and his lords were astonied.

			Now the queen by reason of the words of the king and his lords came into the banquet house: and the queen spake and said, O king, live for ever: let not thy thoughts trouble thee, nor let thy countenance be changed:

			There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;

			Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the interpretation.

			Then was Daniel brought in before the king. And the king spake and said unto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the children of the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of Jewry?

			I have even heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods is in thee, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom is found in thee.

			Daniel 5:1-14

			1. 	The first dimension is to pray for LIGHT.

			Pray that you will be full of light and revelation. The more light you have, the more you can do.

			There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father LIGHT and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;

			Daniel 5:11

			Father, I need revelation and guidance

			Light in my ministry

			Light to lead Your people

			Light in my future

			Light in my marriage

			Light in my profession

			Light in my home

			This light saved Daniel from a very wicked king and a national crisis.

			2. 	The second dimension is to pray for UNDERSTANDING.

			Father, give me understanding.

			Understanding saved Daniel from national crises and saved many people’s lives. Your understanding in a national crisis will save your family’s life.

			There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and UNDERSTANDING and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;

			Daniel 5:11

			Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee.

			Psalm 32:9

			When you lack understanding, you are subject to brute force.

			Lord, let me understand the ministry

			Let me understand Your people in Your church

			Let me understand my life

			Let me understand my relationships, especially my marital relationship

			Let me understand my children

			Let me understand my manager and colleagues

			3.	The third dimension is to pray for WISDOM.

			Wisdom is how you think. Wisdom is the application of the knowledge you have, combined with the experiences you have.

			There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and understanding and WISDOM, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;

			Daniel 5:11

			Wisdom is profitable to direct.

			If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.

			Ecclesiastes 10:10

			If the ax is dull and the man does not whet the edge, he must put forth more strength; but wisdom helps him to succeed.

			Ecclesiastes 10:10 (AMPC)

			Father, let Your wisdom help me to succeed in every national crises.

			Wisdom, Lord! May I escape through Your wisdom.

			Father, give us the wisdom You gave to Solomon and Daniel that made them incomparable.

			Give therefore, thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad: for who is able to judge this thy so great a people?

			And the speech pleased the Lord, that Solomon had asked this thing.

			And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment;

			Behold, I have done according to thy words: lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee.

			1 Kings 3:9-12

			Solomon’s request for wisdom pleased God. Sometimes, your prayer requests can make God angry. Solomon was alone in his class because of his prayer for wisdom. Wisdom is the principal thing. In all your getting, get wisdom.

			4. 	The fourth dimension is to pray to be the MASTER OF THE MAGICIANS.

			Pray for what can make you master of any current national crisis.

			Father, make me master of anything that I am doing now!

			There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers

			Daniel 5:11

			Father, make me master of the magicians of my day

			In ministry, make me master of the ministry

			Give me mastery over current wisdom

			Father, make me a master of every wickedness and every train of thinking

			5. 	The fifth dimension is to pray for the WISDOM OF THE GODS.

			The “wisdom of the gods” means the wisdom is not human; and that wisdom, is the wisdom of God. This is supernatural wisdom.

			Examples of supernatural wisdom:

			i)	Give and it shall be given unto you (Luke 6:38).

			ii)	If you want to up, then you have to go down (James 4:10).

			iii)	He that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, from him shall be taken even that which heh hath (Mark 4:25).

			iv)	Honour your father and mother (Ephesians 6:2-3), no matter what they did.

			v)	Touch not the Lord’s anointed (Psalm 105:15), irrespective of what they do.

			6. 	The sixth dimension is to pray for an EXCELLENT SPIRIT.

			Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the interpretation.

			Daniel 5:12

			What is An Excellent Spirit?

			i)	An excellent spirit is a spirit that is not polluted

			ii)	It is a spirit that is not corrupted

			iii) 	It is a clean spirit

			iv)	It is a sweet spirit

			v)	It is a spirit that is not embittered

			Without this excellent spirit, everything will go through a filter of your soul.

			Pray for this excellent spirit that will help you to stand out in a national crisis.

			7. 	The seventh dimension is KNOWLEDGE.

			Knowledge is what you know. Knowing and applying what you know is Wisdom.

			Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the interpretation.

			Daniel 5:12

			8. 	The eighth dimension is INTERPRETATION OF DREAMS.

			God speaks to us in dreams. If we despise dreams, we despise God.

			Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the interpretation.

			Daniel 5:12

			There are Significant Dreams of Your Life

			1. 	If Joseph had despised dreams, Jesus wouldn’t have been born. Jesus would have been killed by Herod.

			2. 	Joseph, the son of Jacob perhaps refused the advances of Potiphar’s wife because of the dream he had more than ten years earlier.

			9.	The ninth dimension is SHOWING OF HARD SENTENCES.

			Pray for the ability to take hard sentences.

			Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, AND SHEWING OF HARD SENTENCES, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the interpretation.

			Daniel 5:12

			Examples of Hard Sentences

			1)	A hard rebuke

			2)	A dismissal

			3)	Hard instruction to go in the opposite direction

			4)	Judgment

			5)	A curse

			6)	A commandment

			7)	Hard prophecy

			So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth.

			Revelation 3:16

			Father, please help me to accept whatever represents a hard sentence.

			10.	The tenth dimension is DISSOLVING OF DOUBTS.

			What you believe is greatly part of your wisdom. Daniel did what he believed. The dissolving of doubts is the Spirit of faith.

			Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the interpretation.

			Daniel 5:12

			[Urged on] by faith the people crossed the Red Sea as [though] on dry land, but when the Egyptians tried to do the same thing they were swallowed up [by the sea].

			Hebrews 11:29 (AMPC)

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Today we are closing every access door and access point into our lives

			We bind every type of pressure

			Demonic pressure

			Satanic pressure

			I bind demons of harassment!

			I bind the demon of intimidation!

			I disconnect from demonic associations!

			I bind every trap and snare of the enemy!

			I bind every demonic attachment and flush it out in the name of Jesus!

			 				Pray against anything that seems to wear you outWe declare judgement on every spirit that tries to chase us; We reverse it and chase it out!

We shall not flee, rather the enemy shall flee!

I command every spirit of fatigue to come out of my life!

Whatever makes me tired and depressed, I rebuke it by the blood of the covenant!



				Pray against the spirit of temptationI uncover every disguise of the enemy!

I reject you right now in the name of Jesus!

I declare judgement on all ranking devils!



				Pray to bind all lying and deception spiritsYour end has come!

I bind you in the name of Jesus!

Father, I cover myself with the blood of Jesus.





			Amen.





CHAPTER 45




Prayer Changes Things




		 			In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Set thine house in order: for thou shalt die, and not live.

			Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed unto the Lord,

			And said, Remember now, O Lord, I beseech thee, how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.

			Then came the word of the Lord to Isaiah, saying,

			Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the Lord, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years.

			Isaiah 38:1-5

		 			1. 	Pray and confess your sins.

			Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand.

			Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of serpents.

			Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer.

			1 Corinthians 10:8-10

			Father forgive us, for lusting after things, for lusting after desires.

			We cast aside the spirit of complaining, murmuring and disloyalty

			We cast aside evil relationships, evil friendships.

			We change our garments, Lord.

			In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Set thine house in order: for thou shalt die, and not live.

			Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed unto the Lord,

			And said, Remember now, O Lord, I beseech thee, how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.

			Then came the word of the Lord to Isaiah, saying,

			Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the Lord, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years.

			Isaiah 38:1-5

			i.	Prayer changes destinies. Prayer changed what had been predicted and prophesied about King Hezekiah. Hezekiah’s death was determined, prophesied, and predicted. Prayer changes things are predicted, determined, prophesied against you.

			ii.	We must be able to talk to God like we talk to our friends. Our prayers must be like how we talk to somebody.

			iii.	Prayer can be non-verbal. We must weep as Hezekiah wept. The non-verbal prayer of King Hezekiah as he wept, moved God.

			Prayer changes things. Whatever negative prediction is over our lives is changing now.

			Prayer changes destinies. Pray and commit your destiny to God.

			As you pray, that negative thing that has been said about you is changing now.

			2. 	Pray that you shall be transformed into a good soldier.

			Pray that we will endure hardness and become good soldiers like Jesus Christ.

			Thou therefore, endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.

			2 Timothy 2:3

			Father take away the softness that makes me unable to follow You.

			Father take away the softness that makes me unable to be a hard Christian.

			Please take away any spirit of softness.

			The Lord is a Man of War

			The Lord is a man of war: the Lord is his name.

			Exodus 15:3

			God is into war. You are becoming a man of war as you pray!

			Every negative characteristic that is not allowing you to become a good soldier is being removed now in the name of Jesus! Your countenance is being changed into a man of war, a good soldier, enduring hardness for God!

			3. 	Pray that you shall be transformed into an athlete.

			And if anyone enters competitive games, he is not crowned unless he competes lawfully (fairly, according to the rules laid down).

			2 Timothy 2:5 (AMPC)

			And athletes cannot win the prize unless they follow the rules.

			2 Timothy 2:5 (NLT)

			What do Athletes Do?

			Athletes practice all the time. If your pulse rate is between 40 to 50, then you are not an athlete. Athletes are disciplined, they cannot do comfortable things, otherwise they cannot win. Athletes have muscles. Athletes sweat.

			Prayer Changes Things!

			Father make me a man of speed, a man of stamina, a man of strength to run marathons in Your kingdom in the name of Jesus! Father, make me an athlete for Your kingdom!

			And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and HIS SWEAT was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.

			Luke 22:44

			Fervency in prayer is very important. Prayer that works must be felt by you and then it will be felt by God.

			Now as athlete, bind anything that will obstruct you.

			Pray to block and destroy these obstructions:

			Every net that has been laid for you!

			Every pit that has been dug for you!

			Every trap that has been set for you!

			We break every demonic and satanic net in Jesus’ Name!

			4.	The next transformation is to change into a farmer.

			To be a farmer is to labour. It is hard labour.

			[It is] the hard-working farmer [who labors to produce] who must be the first partaker of the fruits.

			2 Timothy 2:6 (AMPC)

			This is a change where you also reap the fruit of your hard work. People will appreciate you. As a farmer you sow seeds and harvest the fruit of the seeds.

			5. 	The next transformation is to change into a workman.

			Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.

			2 Timothy 2:15

			Work is repetitive, it is time consuming. You get tired when you work. You spend money when you work.

			6. 	Pray for 15 more years of life from now to serve God.

			In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live.

			Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed unto the Lord, saying,

			I beseech thee, O Lord, remember now how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.

			And it came to pass, afore Isaiah was gone out into the middle court, that the word of the Lord came to him, saying,

			Turn again, and tell Hezekiah the captain of my people, Thus saith the Lord, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will heal thee: on the third day thou shalt go up unto the house of the Lord.

			And I will add unto thy days fifteen years; and I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city for mine own sake, and for my servant David’s sake.

			And Isaiah said, Take a lump of figs. And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.

			2 Kings 20:1-7

			King Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and God heard him instantaneously.

			Lord save us from cancer, save us from any accident, save us from any form of illness or sickness

			Please Lord give me grace to live for you, grant me 15 years or more to be a soldier

			To be an athlete for your kingdom

			To be a farmer planting seeds for your kingdom

			To be a workman Lord

			Father grant me 15 more years of fruitfulness

			My life is in You, my hope is in You

			Lord, 15 years more with ease

			Prayer changes things and prayer will change everything for us.

			It may be the Lord thy God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria his master hath sent to reproach the living God; and will reprove the words which the Lord thy God hath heard: wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that are left.

			Lord, bow down thine ear, and hear: open, Lord, thine eyes, and see: and hear the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent him to reproach the living God.

			2 Kings 19:4, 16

			Every “Rabshakeh” and “Shennacherib” are being cursed and destroyed!

			We pray against every Rabshakeh and Shennacherib spirit, the spirit that reproaches. Their evil plans shall not prosper!

			We cause these evil plans to boomerang!

			May they fall into the pit that they have dug.

			Father, we declare their plans backfired!

			Every negative access point into our lives and homes is being blocked now!

			Every negative pattern from our parents is being cursed now!

			My days of supernatural breakthrough are here

			Because every time there is prayer, there are angels

			7. 	Pray to be a son.

			To Timothy, MY DEARLY BELOVED SON: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.

			2 Timothy 1:2

			May I become a dearly beloved son or daughter like Jesus and Timothy. Father, may I become a dear son in the name Jesus.

			8. 	Pray for the kingdom of God to come.

			 				Father give us:



			25,000 churches

			2 million church members

			190 nations

			2,000 Apostles

			We pray for labourers, we pray for shepherds.

			 				Father give us:



			Jewish pastors

			Egyptian pastors

			Moroccan pastors

			Japanese pastors.

			Please bring the gospel to every corner of the world.

			Let Your wind blow.

			9. 	Pray for the Spirit of power and love.

			We need the power of God!

			We need the love of God!

			And we need a right thinking, well-balanced mind to be able to go to all nations.

			The Prophetic Blessings

			Prayer changes things

			Thank God that prayer has changed everything

			Prayer has done it

			Whatever we lack, His power has changed it

			Prayer has changed who we are

			Thank You Lord.

			Amen.





CHAPTER 46




Prayer for God to Make You a Watchman; Prayer for the Holy Spirit & Prayer to Bind Demons




		 			The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?

			The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come.

			Isaiah 21:11-12



		 			Prayer to Become a Watchman

			1. 	Pray that the Lord will make you a true watchman.

			The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?

			The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come.

			Isaiah 21:11-12

			2. 	Pray concerning your ministry as a watchman.

			Pray for your watchman ministry and your prophetic ministry; that your eyes and ears may be opened.

			Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel: therefore, hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me.

			Ezekiel 3:17

			Son of man, speak to the children of thy people, and say unto them, When I bring the sword upon a land, if the people of the land take a man of their coasts, and set him for their watchman:

			If when he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people;

			Then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh not warning; if the sword come, and take him away, his blood shall be upon his own head.

			He heard the sound of the trumpet, and took not warning; his blood shall be upon him. But he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul.

			But if the watchman see the sword come, and blow not the trumpet, and the people be not warned; if the sword come, and take any person from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at the watchman’s hand.

			Ezekiel 33:2-6

			A watchman is to do two things:

			i.	To be Awake (to see and hear)

			ii.	To Warn (yourself and others)

			Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I sent? who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the Lord’s servant?

			Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening the ears, but he heareth not.

			Isaiah 42:19-20

			A Christian must not be blind. You must be very observant.

			Any unusual thing that you notice means there’s something unusual happening.

			Your eyes and ears are opening now!

			The Holy Spirit is speaking and showing you things. You are prophetic!

			Thus saith the Lord God; It shall also come to pass, that at the same time shall things come into thy mind, and thou shalt think an evil thought:

			Ezekiel 38:10

			But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things.

			1 John 2:20

			Respect thoughts. They are not neutral things. They are spirits.

			This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed great unto me:

			There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it:

			Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.

			Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man’s wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.

			Ecclesiastes 9:13-16

			Prayer for the Holy Spirit

			1.	Pray for godly wisdom concerning your finances, relationships and ministry.

			Wisdom can make you escape.

			If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.

			Ecclesiastes 10:10

			Wisdom is very important. Behave wisely according to godly wisdom!

			Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man’s wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.

			Ecclesiastes 9:16

			And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord;

			And shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the Lord: and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of his ears:

			Isaiah 11:2-3

			We need good advice for our lives. You are the “head of state” of your life. You don’t know everything about everything. You need counsel.

			2. 	Pray for quick understanding. You will understand things quickly.

			Almost everything to do with the Holy Spirit has to do with how you think. Your whole life is based on how you think.

			Receive a softened heart that understands quickly.

			Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee.

			Psalm 32: 9

			Every spirit of a horse or mule that causes you not to understand is going out in Jesus’ name!

			Pray for good sense, forward thinking and quick understanding. Pray for the Holy Spirit!

			But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to edification, and exhortation, and comfort.

			1 Corinthians 14:3

			3. 	Pray for the Holy Spirit.

			He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might he increaseth strength. Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall: But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.

			Isaiah 40:29-31

			Seven Things that Happen When You Wait on God

			i.	When you wait on God, your strength is renewed. Your strength and power are increased as you wait on God.

			ii.	When you wait on God it increases your altitude (your level), you keep going up.

			iii.	When you wait on God, it makes you sensitive to the Holy Spirit.

			iv.	When you wait on God it increases your speed (in life and ministry).

			v.	When you wait on God it increases your stamina.

			vi.	When you wait on God it increases your walk and fellowship with God and godly people.

			vii.	When you wait on God it increases your freshness.

			Thank God for the seven things happening to you as you wait on Him.

			4.	Pray for the Spirit of humility. Pray for the Spirit of lowliness. It is the master key out of every siege.

			Humility is invisible. Usually if you think you’re humble, you’re actually not. Humility is a spirit.

			Be clothed with humility!

			Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.

			Proverbs 16:18

			Things don’t just easily work out. There are a lot of unexplained evil and wickedness in life. Examples are:

			 				Poverty

				Difficulties

				Marital challenges

				Chronic singleness

				Stagnation in life

				Starting something and not finishing it



			Please exempt us

			Please exclude us

			Show us mercy Lord

			Our fathers have sinned

			Our mothers have sinned

			Please don’t let us bear their iniquities

			May God deliver you from any puffed up spirit in you. Anything that makes you feel and think of yourself bigger or higher than you are!

			Pray to be very meek! The anointing of Moses is upon your life!

			5.	Pray for the Spirit of divine guidance and direction!

			Pray for the Spirit of counsel!

			And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt.

			And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days:

			They saw not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days: but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.

			Exodus 10:21-23

			People don’t benefit from the Passover Lamb (Christ and salvation) because after taking the blood, they still stay in Egypt (the world).

			You will have light in your life by the Spirit of counsel.

			Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and shew my people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their sins…

			And THE LORD SHALL GUIDE THEE CONTINUALLY, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not.

			Isaiah 58:1, 11

			God will guide you continually (before, during and after the drought and crises).

			The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.

			Psalm 25:9

			God doesn’t guide everybody. He guides the meek. If you’re not humble, you can’t be guided. Lack of humility makes you unguidable.

			Pray for the Holy Spirit! The Spirit of continual guidance!

			Prayer to Bind Demons

			1. 	Take up a lamentation against the devil in your life!

			Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyrus, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God; Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.

			Ezekiel 28:12

			Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.

			Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers.

			The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun.

			Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter.

			Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O Lord, and that the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.

			O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.

			Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.

			Psalm 74:14 - 20

			2.	Everything that harasses you, stops and finishes now.

			Bind every messenger of satan sent to your life now!

			Whatever is a messenger and has come to stay with you can no longer stay with you in Jesus’ name!

			Bind whatever represents stress and buffeting in your life. It’s ending now!

			Every treatment you don’t like in your life is from the devil

			Bind every evil meeting and conspiracy against your life!

			Bind every strike of evil against you!

			Pray for a counterstrike to end the conflict and battle against your top enemy!

			Bind every spirit of demotion and humiliation!

			O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?

			Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt.

			Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary…

			They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.

			Psalm 74:1-3, 8

			3.	Whatever the enemy has done wickedly in your life and in the church is neutralized!

			Every spirit of destruction spoiling your life, love, church, relationships is neutralized!

			Bind every destruction and wickedness!

			Break the head of leviathan (serpents, vipers, marine spirits, etc.)

			Bind the spirit of death.

			Bind every spirit that is dwelling with you physically! Cast it out!

			Ask for the head of every serpent in your life!

			Every authority of evil over your life is destroyed now!

			Break the head of every serpent in your life!

			Take up a funeral lamentation against your enemy!

			Your enemy is finished and destroyed!

			Declare the funeral of your enemies!

			Whatever plan that is working against you is not working again in Jesus’ name!

			Communion Prayers

			The Bread

			Father, we present this holy bread before You

			We say now this is the body of our Saviour Jesus Christ

			Thank You, Lord, for Your body which was broken for us

			By His stripes we are healed

			We receive healing and long life as we receive this holy communion today - the body of Jesus

			As this body enters you

			Whatever could not be in Jesus cannot be in you

			Whatever disease could not be in Jesus cannot be in you

			A virus that could not be in Jesus cannot be in you

			Every virus dies

			Every bacteria dies

			Every sickness ends

			Every pestilence ends

			Every bad news comes to a conclusion in Jesus’ name

			You are set free

			You are healed, covered, and helped

			By the body of our Saviour Jesus Christ. (Eat It)

			The Blood

			By one man sin entered

			By one man sin has been removed - my mistake, my father’s mistake, my mother’s mistakes

			May their sin, their iniquities, and their transgressions

			Which are passed on to my generation and my children’s generation, be neutralized by this cup, the cup of blessing

			Let the curse that has operated in every family, be neutralized by this blood

			Let the sins that I have come into the world to perform

			And my iniquities and transgressions

			Be washed today and neutralized, and their power be nullified

			By the blood of the Lamb that taketh away the sins of the world

			May I be restored to God and recover from the effects of my sins, transgressions, and iniquities

			May my sins not be recounted to me anymore

			May my mistakes not be mentioned again

			Any demonic record that are accessed by devils and used against me, are neutralized and wiped away by this powerful blood

			The blood that washes away and makes me white as wool

			I receive this cup of blessing and the blood of Jesus. (Drink It)

			The Prophetic Blessing

			May the Passover eradicate what was supposed to stop in your house and stay to bring sadness and destruction

			It moves on out of your house NOW

			In the name of Jesus Christ!

			What visited you cannot stay, it must go!

			Whatever evil came to you cannot stay on

			You are cleansed, forgiven, and restored

			May the visitation of darkness end and be replaced by the visitation of God

			Receive healing, receive blessing, receive restoration, and health from above

			These are the days of Elijah

			Days of supernatural involvement with the affairs of our life.

			Amen.





