PREDESTINATION





DAG HEWARD-MILLS





Parchment House





		 			Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.





PREDESTINATION





Copyright © 2022 Dag Heward-Mills





First published 2022 by Parchment House





77Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills at:

			Healing Jesus Campaign

			Email: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

			Website: www.daghewardmills.org

			Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

			Twitter: @EvangelistDag





ISBN : 978-1-64330-605-6





			All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Contents

Chapter 1: Predestination is Real

Chapter 2: Predestined To BE Something

Chapter 3: Predestined To DO Something

Chapter 4: Predestined for the Seven Blessings

Chapter 5: Predestined To Live Forever

Chapter 6: Predestined for Judgment

Chapter 7: How Predestination Affects Your Ministry

Chapter 8: How Predestination Affects Your Life

Chapter 9: The Predestination of Jesus





Chapter 1




Predestination is Real





		 			For the LORD of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

			Isaiah 14:27



		 			What is Predestination?

Predestination is to determine something in advance. To believe in predestination is to believe that God has foreordained every event throughout eternity. Predestination is the previous determination of events. Believing in predestination means that you believe that no one has any real control of events but that everything has already been decided by God’s plan and purpose.

			Predestination is a doctrine that was promoted by John Calvin, a 16th Century French Theologian. Some people believe strongly in predestination whilst others believe that your destiny depends on your own strong will, your own determination and your own commitment to hard work.

			Predestination is an interesting topic because there is evidence in the Bible that things are determined beforehand but there is also evidence that God gives us our free will and expects us to decide on many things. God allows us the freedom of choice. God allows us to choose between good and evil.

			God does not force people! Because God gives you a choice, there is an impression that man is deciding things, creating things and doing things. Whatever we decide to do does not change the reality that God is in charge of everything. God rules in the affairs of men!

			Many plans are in a man’s mind, but it is the Lord’s purpose for him that will stand (be carried out).

			Proverbs 19:21 (AMP)

			But predestination is real! I believe that God has determined all things already. We are just living out an ancient prophecy that has been channelled through various prophets. It is time for you to understand predestination so that you can work with God and walk with God more easily.

			The concept of predestination is difficult to grasp because of the way circumstances play out. Those who watch movies have a completely different experience from those who act in them. The movie you are watching actually has a script, which is being acted and played out. Everything is rehearsed! Everything is intentional! Everything has been written out! The words that are spoken so naturally and so effortlessly are all rehearsed. The jokes, the emotions which are displayed so easily, the tears that are shed, as well as the laughter of the actors are all rehearsed over and over again. Nothing is natural! And nothing just happens!

			However, those of us watching the movie consider the movie to be one circumstance leading to the other. We go through surprise, shock, and amusement and may even shed some tears whilst watching. Amazingly those acting the film just feel tired and irritated at having to pretend over and over again.

			This is how your life is! There is a script! The scripture says, “In thy book all my members were written.” (Psalm 139:16). Believe that your life is predestined and you will have more faith in God. You will see things differently!

			When Jesus was arrested on the night before Good Friday, his disciples wanted to stop Judas from implementing his nefarious plan. They tried to fight back and prevent Jesus from being harmed but Jesus simply asked, “But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must be?” (Matthew 26:54).

			Jesus knew that the written script was going to happen practically. Events on earth would have to play out according to the ancient scriptures, which govern all plans and purposes on this earth. Jesus knew that nothing was happening by chance; but His disciples thought that something unfortunate was happening.

			Indeed, nothing unfortunate was happening! The plans and purposes of God were being worked out in detail. Every evil person who played a role on that fateful night was predetermined and predestined. The curses and the punishments of the traitors were prepared before they even had the idea to betray Jesus. Judas’s destruction and condemnation was spoken of long before he betrayed Jesus. Judas simply acted out the scripture:

			Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel did value; And gave them for the potter’s field, as the Lord appointed me.

			Matthew 27:9-10

			Predestination in the Bible

			1.	The predestination of your body.

			None of my bones was hidden from you when you made me inside my mother’s body. That place was as dark as the deepest parts of the earth. WHEN YOU WERE PUTTING ME TOGETHER THERE, YOUR EYES SAW MY BODY EVEN BEFORE IT WAS FORMED. YOU PLANNED HOW MANY DAYS I WOULD LIVE. You wrote down the number of them in your book before I had lived through even one of them. God, your thoughts about me are priceless. No one can possibly add them all up.

			 Psalm 139:15-17 (NIRV)

			Your human body is predestined to be a certain way. You are predestined to look the way you do. You are predestined to be the size you are. You are predestined to be the colour that you are. You are predestined to have the parents that you have. You are predestined to have the desires that you have.

			In the book of God, all your members and all parts of your body are written and fashioned. God designed and created you long before you came into existence. How precious these thoughts are! How relaxing it is to know that you were created exactly the way God wants you to be.

			2.	The predestination of your Christian life.

			For whom he did foreknow, HE ALSO DID PREDESTINATE TO BE CONFORMED TO THE IMAGE OF HIS SON, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren.

			Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified.

			Romans 8:29-30

			Your Christian life is predestined. You are predestined to be like Jesus. God’s plan is that Jesus Christ will be the first born amongst many brothers and sisters. This amazing destiny of becoming like Jesus Christ was planned by God in eternity. Your road and your journey to this destiny is just being worked out by the power of God. Because you have been predestined to become so great, God has called you to justify you and glorify you.

			In your glorified state, you will be just like one of the brethren of Jesus. What are you going through now? What tests are you experiencing? What hardships and sacrifices are you going through? God wants you to be just like Jesus who went through many tests, sacrifices and hardships.

			3.	The predestination of events.

			This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations. For the LORD of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

			Isaiah 14:26-27

			This scripture reveals that God has purposes and plans for the whole earth. As the song says, “He’s got the whole world in His hands”. This scripture says that God has the whole earth in His hands and in His purposes.

			Your plan, your purposes, and your pursuits will amount to nothing unless they are done according to His purposes. It is well and good to plan your life and purpose to do many great things. But none of these things can happen and flourish unless God has also purposed them. I want you to imagine God as a strong man who has stretched out his hand. Nothing can turn back the hand of the strong man. The man is too strong, too big and too powerful to bend back his hand.

			What God has decided and purposed is exactly what is going to happen.

			For this shall the earth mourn, and the heavens above be black: because I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and will not repent, NEITHER WILL I TURN BACK FROM IT.

			Jeremiah 4:28

			4.	The predestination of your ministry.

			Now the word of the Lord came to me saying, “Before I formed you in the womb I knew you, and before you were born I consecrated you; I have appointed you a prophet to the nations.”

			Jeremiah 1:4-5 (NASB)

			The prophet Jeremiah was informed that he was consecrated to the ministry before he was born. What a shock! Is it not surprising to find out that everything you are doing was predetermined?

			It is like watching a movie and being impressed with the scene only to watch the “behind the scenes” clips and discover the number of times it was repeated and practiced until it was perfected. It looked so natural and yet it was all rehearsed!

			Indeed, in your life and ministry, it may look like events are overtaking and overwhelming you. But be well assured that all the events of your life are predetermined to ensure that you fulfil your ministry as a prophet to the nations. You may be going through overwhelming criticisms and accusations, however, it will surprise you to know that it was all predetermined.

			The two prophets in the book of Revelation who came from Heaven and prophesied against the world, were attacked by a dragon and a beast. I am sure these two prophets would be overwhelmed. I am sure they would be shocked at the way their character and integrity are attacked. They would not believe the slander and blasphemies that are spewed out against them. But it was already in the scripture that blasphemers would arise and have power to blaspheme for exactly forty-two months.

			And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months.

			Revelation 13:5

			Dear friend, take heart! There is nothing that is happening in your life that is not predetermined. Even your enemies are predetermined. Their damnation, their curse and doom are predetermined. God will punish them according to His predestination of their judgment.

			5.	The predestination of Israel.

			In Psalm 105 you see how Israel was led by God through the wilderness. They went through many experiences. They had many miracles. They had many trials. They had many bad experiences but through it all God was actually keeping His covenant with Israel. God was ensuring that His chosen people whom He had predestined would end up in the promised land and give birth to the Messiah.

			The story of Israel’s miraculous escape from Egypt and journey through the wilderness after crossing the Rea Sea is not a fairy tale. It is an example of the supernatural power of predestination at work.

			Psalm 105 (NASB)

			Oh give thanks to the Lord, call upon His name; Make known His deeds among the peoples.

			Sing to Him, sing praises to Him; Speak of all His wonders.

			Glory in His holy name; Let the heart of those who seek the Lord be glad.

			Seek the Lord and His strength; Seek His face continually.

			Remember His wonders which He has done, His marvels and the judgments uttered by His mouth,

			O seed of Abraham, His servant, O sons of Jacob, His chosen ones!

			He is the Lord our God; His judgments are in all the earth.

			HE HAS REMEMBERED HIS COVENANT FOREVER, the word which He commanded to a thousand generations,

			The covenant which He made with Abraham, and His oath to Isaac.

			Then He confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant,

			Saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan As the portion of your inheritance,”

			When they were only a few men in number, very few, and strangers in it.

			And they wandered about from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people.

			HE PERMITTED NO MAN TO OPPRESS THEM, AND HE REPROVED KINGS FOR THEIR SAKES:

			“Do not touch My anointed ones, and do My prophets no harm.”

			AND HE CALLED FOR A FAMINE upon the land; He broke the whole staff of bread.

			HE SENT A MAN BEFORE THEM, JOSEPH, WHO WAS SOLD AS A SLAVE.

			They afflicted his feet with fetters, He himself was laid in irons;

			Until the time that his word came to pass, THE WORD OF THE LORD TESTED HIM.

			The king sent and released him, the ruler of peoples, and set him free.

			He made him lord of his house and ruler over all his possessions,

			To imprison his princes at will, that he might teach his elders wisdom.

			Israel also came into Egypt; thus Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.

			AND HE CAUSED HIS PEOPLE TO BE VERY FRUITFUL, AND MADE THEM STRONGER THAN THEIR ADVERSARIES.

			HE TURNED THEIR HEART TO HATE HIS PEOPLE, TO DEAL CRAFTILY WITH HIS SERVANTS.

			HE SENT MOSES HIS SERVANT, AND AARON, WHOM HE HAD CHOSEN.

			They performed His wondrous acts among them, And miracles in the land of Ham.

			HE SENT DARKNESS AND MADE IT DARK; AND THEY DID NOT REBEL AGAINST HIS WORDS.

			HE TURNED THEIR WATERS INTO BLOOD AND CAUSED THEIR FISH TO DIE. 30 Their land swarmed with frogs Even in the chambers of their kings.

			HE SPOKE, AND THERE CAME A SWARM OF FLIES And gnats in all their territory. He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.

			HE STRUCK DOWN THEIR VINES ALSO AND THEIR FIG TREES, AND shattered the trees of their territory.

			He spoke, and locusts came, And young locusts, even without number,

			And ate up all vegetation in their land, and ate up the fruit of their ground.

			He also struck down all the firstborn in their land, the first fruits of all their vigor.

			THEN HE BROUGHT THEM OUT WITH SILVER AND GOLD, AND AMONG HIS TRIBES there was not one who stumbled.

			Egypt was glad when they departed, for the dread of them had fallen upon them.

			HE SPREAD A CLOUD FOR A COVERING, and fire to illumine by night.

			They asked, and He brought quail, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven.

			HE OPENED THE ROCK AND WATER FLOWED OUT; it ran in the dry places like a river.

			For He remembered His holy word With Abraham His servant;

			And HE BROUGHT FORTH HIS PEOPLE WITH JOY, His chosen ones with a joyful shout.

			HE GAVE THEM ALSO THE LANDS OF THE NATIONS, that they might take possession of the fruit of the peoples’ labor,

			So that they might keep His statutes and observe His laws, Praise the Lord!

			6.	The predestination of the end.

			Remember the former things long past, For I am God, and there is no other; I am God, and there is no one like Me, DECLARING THE END FROM THE BEGINNING, and from ancient times things which have not been done, saying, “MY PURPOSE WILL BE ESTABLISHED, AND I WILL ACCOMPLISH ALL MY GOOD PLEASURE”; calling a bird of prey from the east, the man of My purpose from a far country. Truly I have spoken; truly I will bring it to pass. I have planned it, surely I will do it.

			Isaiah 46:9-11 (NASB)

			There are some people who watch films in a slightly different way from others. I have a friend who forwards the video to the very end and watches the last few minutes first before he starts watching the movie. He tells me that he wants to see those who are alive at the end of the movie before he starts watching. This little secret, he claims, helps to keep down the tension when he is watching.

			God has no tension at all when He watches our lives. God is never anxious! God is never concerned about how things are going to turn out. He sees the end from the beginning! It is important that you start to see things from God’s perspective. God knows the end and how things will work out! Have faith in God! He is working things out in your favour!

			7.	The predestination of God’s plans.

			THEREFORE HEAR THE PLAN OF THE LORD WHICH HE HAS PLANNED AGAINST EDOM, AND HIS PURPOSES WHICH HE HAS PURPOSED against the inhabitants of Teman: surely they will drag them off, even the little ones of the flock; surely He will make their pasture desolate because of them.

			Jeremiah 49:20 (NASB)

			THEREFORE HEAR THE PLAN OF THE LORD WHICH HE HAS PLANNED AGAINST BABYLON, AND HIS PURPOSES WHICH HE HAS PURPOSED against the land of the Chaldeans: surely they will drag them off, even the little ones of the flock; surely He will make their pasture desolate because of them.

			Jeremiah 50:45 (NASB)

			What occurs to you when you hear that God has plans? As a human being, are you not always making plans? Are you not always planning one thing or the other? Now, if you have a plan and God also has a plan, which of the plans do you think will come to pass? God is not going to fit His big plan into your little plan!

			Jesus told a story of a rich man who had made great plans to build barns and expand his business. But God had planned to summon this man to eternity. God had no plans of letting this man live a day more than he did. Always remember that God does not fit His plans into your plan.

			And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits? And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, THOU FOOL, THIS NIGHT THY SOUL SHALL BE REQUIRED OF THEE: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?

			Luke 12:16-20

			God’s plans are way too big to fit into your little plans and purposes. Indeed, it is best to have no plans at all. It is best to have no plans or visions.

			Many times, people ask me, “What is your goal and what is your vision?” I struggle to answer these questions because I really do not have a goal or a vision. I have learnt over the years that there is no point in having a goal or a vision.

			My vision is to do His will. My plan is to do His plan! Why plan to live in America when God plans for you to live in Uganda? Why plan to live in Europe when God plans for you to live in Asia? Spend your time trying to find God’s plan for your life. Do exactly what Jesus did! Pray that the will of God will come to pass!

			8.	The predestination of our calling.

			Who hath saved us, and called us with AN HOLY CALLING, not according to our works, but ACCORDING TO HIS OWN PURPOSE AND GRACE, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began

			2 Timothy 1:9

			Everyone whom God calls must realise that his calling is according to God’s purpose. God has some specific things that He intends you to do. You must be obedient to God’s calling and understand His purposes. Always remember that you are called according to His purposes.

			What does it mean to be called according to His purpose?

			God may have called you to be an apostle. You may say to yourself that God has called me to plant churches. You may have in mind that God will use you to build a huge church. However, God’s purpose may be for you to lay a foundation upon which a mega church will be built in the future. It is important to obey the call of God but it is also important to find out the purpose for which God called you.

			God may call you to be an evangelist but His purpose in calling you may be to set an example in soul winning. God may have called you to be an evangelist but his purpose in calling you to be an evangelist is to teach people about how to do the work of God. You may have thought that the calling of God to be an evangelist was to win many souls to Christ. You must seek to know the purposes of God within the calling.

			God may have called you to be a pastor. His purpose for calling you to be a pastor may not be to shepherd people but to raise up other pastors who will take the ministry even further.

			You may be called to be a teacher of the Word. Perhaps, your vision is to teach the foundations, the basics and certain essential doctrines of Christ. However, God may want you to teach married couples on how to do well in marriage. Indeed, God may have a special line of teaching that He expects you to fulfil. Some people are called to teach about faith, about the Holy Spirit or about the end time. You must find out the purpose of God so that you can fulfil the call of God according to His purpose.

			9.	The predestination of destruction.

			Wherefore the anger of the Lord was kindled against Amaziah, and he sent unto him a prophet, which said unto him, Why hast thou sought after the gods of the people, which could not deliver their own people out of thine hand?

			And it came to pass, as he talked with him, that the king said unto him, Art thou made of the king’s counsel? forbear; why shouldest thou be smitten? THEN THE PROPHET FORBARE, AND SAID, I KNOW THAT GOD HATH DETERMINED TO DESTROY THEE, BECAUSE THOU HAST DONE THIS, AND HAST NOT HEARKENED UNTO MY COUNSEL.

			2 Chronicles 25:15-16

			Some people are predestined for destruction! It is important not to associate with people who are destined for destruction! Rebels are destined for destruction! Anyone involved in rebellion, treachery and disloyalty is destined for destruction.

			Your association with rebellious and disloyal people welds you to their future destruction. In the scripture above, the prophet declared to the king that God had determined to destroy him because he was refusing to listen to His counsel.

			As the prophet stared at the king, he could see destruction written all over him. He knew that destruction was predetermined because the man would not listen to advice. The day you stop listening to advice is the beginning of your destruction. Rebellion is as sinful as witchcraft and it always leads to sudden destruction.

			10.	The predestination of your death.

			And Jonadab, the son of Shimeah David’s brother, answered and said, Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men the king’s sons; for Amnon only is dead: FOR BY THE APPOINTMENT OF ABSALOM THIS HATH BEEN DETERMINED FROM THE DAY THAT HE FORCED HIS SISTER TAMAR.

			2 Samuel 13:32

			There are certain events that trigger predestination. When Amnon raped his sister, Tamar, his death was determined. Destruction was determined against him. Sexual immorality can trigger a predestined calamity and destruction. Sin is a precursor to death. The wages of sin is death! (Romans 6:23) The payment for sin is death. When Amnon sinned, an earlier death was determined. You will be surprised that every sin you commit brings you nearer to your point of death.

			Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death.

			James 1:15

			As you can see from this scripture, lust is a precursor for sin and sin a precursor for death. When Jonadab spoke, he only spoke the wisdom of God. He knew that by the act of raping Tamar, death was determined for Amnon from that day.

			Dear friend, do not take fornication and adultery lightly. You will be surprised that these sins can bring your life to a premature end. You may commit fornication and from that day a new date of death will be determined. Pray constantly for the mercy of God lest you trigger a premature death.

			11.	The predestination of the length of your life.

			Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble. He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not. And dost thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me into judgment with thee? Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one. SEEING HIS DAYS ARE DETERMINED, THE NUMBER OF HIS MONTHS ARE WITH THEE, THOU HAST APPOINTED HIS BOUNDS THAT HE CANNOT PASS;

			Job 14:1-5

			The length of life is also another predetermined matter. When you are born, the number of days that you will live are determined. God decides how long He wants you to live on this earth. Indeed, there are some things that can lengthen your life or shorten it. When you arrive in a country, you are given a certain number of days that you can live there. Sometimes you are given two weeks to stay. Sometimes you are given three months to stay there.

			In the same way, when you arrive in this world, a spiritual passport is stamped with the number of days that you will live. The scripture is clear. Your days are determined and the number of months that you will live is known by God. You cannot pass those boundaries!

			12.	The predestination of desolation.

			Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks: the street shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times.

			And after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself: and the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary; AND THE END THEREOF SHALL BE WITH A FLOOD, AND UNTO THE END OF THE WAR DESOLATIONS ARE DETERMINED.

			And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week: and in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease, AND FOR THE OVERSPREADING OF ABOMINATIONS HE SHALL MAKE IT DESOLATE, EVEN UNTIL THE CONSUMMATION, AND THAT DETERMINED SHALL BE POURED UPON THE DESOLATE.

			Daniel 9:25-27

			Desolations were determined on the land of Israel because of their sins. There are many calamities and tragedies that cannot be prevented because they are determined. We have watched as the world is overwhelmed by calamity after calamity. Wars, volcanoes, pandemics, poverty, droughts and earthquakes are constantly ravaging the planet. Indeed, many desolations are determined already.

			God has determined that the earth will go through these labour pangs. Why are these things determined? There are many things we do not understand. There are many judgments that this earth and its rebellious population of unbelievers must experience before the world comes to an end. You and I must trust God to implement His sovereign plan.

			13.	The predestination of abominable men.

			And some of them of understanding shall fall, to try them, and to purge, and to make them white, even to the time of the end: because it is yet for a time appointed.

			And the king shall do according to his will; and HE SHALL EXALT HIMSELF, AND MAGNIFY HIMSELF ABOVE EVERY GOD, AND SHALL SPEAK MARVELLOUS THINGS AGAINST THE GOD OF GODS, AND SHALL PROSPER TILL THE INDIGNATION BE ACCOMPLISHED: FOR THAT THAT IS DETERMINED SHALL BE DONE.

			Daniel 11:35-36

			There are people who are very antagonistic towards the work of God. They speak marvellous things against the God of gods. They seem to prosper and flourish as they blaspheme, slander and insult God and His servants. Indeed, they present a great indignation against the kingdom of God.

			However, in this amazing scripture, we learn that these people will flourish and prosper because it is determined that they should. They will speak great words that are injurious and harmful to the kingdom but will be allowed to carry on because it is determined. Since great words of blasphemy and insults were spoken against our Lord Jesus Christ, why do you want to escape your fair share of insults?

			I have not yet seen a man of God who does not have his fair share of slanderers who go around saying evil things and writing outrageous words against him. Billy Graham commented that he was made popular by his critics who spoke great and marvellous things against him and his ministry.

			14.	The predestination of threats and attacks.

			FOR TRULY IN THIS CITY THERE WERE GATHERED TOGETHER AGAINST YOUR HOLY SERVANT JESUS, whom You anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel, TO DO WHATEVER YOUR HAND AND YOUR PURPOSE PREDESTINED TO OCCUR.

			Acts 4:27-28 (NASB)

			Just after Jesus had ascended to heaven, the disciples had their fair share of criticism, slander and persecution. The prayers that they prayed when they were assembled together made a statement which stands out. They said, Pontius Pilate, the Gentiles and the people of Israel only did to Jesus what God had already predestined to happen.

			God has predetermined many things. Pontius Pilate tried to wiggle his way out of his responsibility to acquit Jesus Christ. Pontius Pilate tried washing his hands, as if to say that he had no part in the death of Jesus Christ.

			But he was predetermined and predestined to hand over an innocent man to the wicked Jews who wanted to murder him. Pontius Pilate’s wife had a dream and she honestly tried to save Jesus Christ. She did not want her husband to have anything to do with His murder. Indeed, none of these interventions could prevent what had been predestined. Predestination is a powerful force that is at work in the earth today.

			15.	The predestination of times.

			God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands; Neither is worshipped with men’s hands, as though he needed any thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things; And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, AND HATH DETERMINED THE TIMES BEFORE APPOINTED, and the bounds of their habitation; That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us:

			Acts 17:24-27

			Seasons and times are also predetermined. There are seasons of flourishing and harvest and there are seasons of sowing seeds. There are seasons of planting churches and there are seasons of winning souls. There are seasons to be lay pastors and there are seasons to be in full-time ministry. It is important to understand that these seasons are predetermined and predestined.

			16.	The predestination of boundaries.

			And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, AND HATH DETERMINED the times before appointed, and THE BOUNDS OF THEIR HABITATION; That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us:

			Acts 17:26-27

			Boundaries are also predestined by God. There is a place that God has destined for you to live and to prosper. It is important to believe in the predestined boundaries of God. It is within those boundaries that you will prosper. Going out of your jurisdiction will not lead to success in your ministry. If God has called you to Africa, you will be better off and more prosperous in Africa.

			There are African ministers who live in America and have had thirty-five members attending their church for the last forty years. Indeed, some of these pastors that have thirty-five members would have had three thousand five hundred members had they been in Africa. However, their insistence on staying and living in America has caused them to be a phantom of what they would ever have been.

			Some people do not believe in predetermined boundaries; however, God believes in boundaries. God considers certain locations more holy than others. There are times God wants you here and there are other times that God wants you there. When Jesus rose from the dead, He encountered Mary Magdalene right there in the tomb in Jerusalem. He told Mary to tell His disciples to meet Him in Galilee. Why did He not meet His disciples in Jerusalem where He met Mary Magdalene? God has determined that certain things should take place at certain places.

			But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you.

			Mark 16:7





Chapter 2




Predestined To BE Something





		 			For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren.

			Romans 8:29

		 		 			Predestined To BE Something



		 			Ten Things You Are Predestined to BECOME

			1.	You are predestined to be in the image of God.

			For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren.

			Romans 8:29

You are predestined to be in the image of God. What is the image of God?

			Jesus is the image of God and God is love. You are predestined to be filled with love. You are predestined to be loving. Wickedness does not suit you anymore. Unforgiveness does not sit well with you any longer.

			Jesus is the image of God and God is light. In Him there is no darkness at all (1 John 1:5). You are destined to be conformed to this image of light and brightness. There must be no shadows and secrets and deceptions about you. Your life of shadows, deceptions and darkness does not conform to the image of His Son. Accept that you are a new person and your destiny is to be conformed to the image of His Son.

			Jesus is The Way, The Truth and The Life (John 14:6). You are destined to be the way for people, the truth for people and a source of new life for people. Allow yourself to become a channel through which many people will find the way to God, find the truth in God and find a new life in God.

			Jesus is a good shepherd (John 10:11). You are predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son. This means that you are predestined to be a shepherd. Being conformed to the image of His Son means that you must rise up and flow with your destiny.

			2.	You are predestined to be called.

			Moreover WHOM HE DID PREDESTINATE, THEM HE ALSO CALLED: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified.

			Romans 8:30

			You are destined to be called. It is your destiny to be called of God. The call of God is no accident. You must accept that it is the fulfilment of your predestination that caused you to walk into a church and hear about the call of God.

			Accept that your call is a supernatural thing. Do you want to know the big difference between those who seem to be called and those who seem to have no special calling? It is simple! Those who believe that they are called take things more seriously. They take a message from God’s Word more seriously than the average person. They take their dreams more seriously. They take their visions more seriously. They take their “quiet times” more seriously.

			I have taken major steps in the ministry because I took my quiet time more seriously. I am sure other Christians also had the same quiet times but did not take them seriously. When I read the scripture, “Give thyself wholly to these things”, (1 Timothy 4:15) I believed with all my heart that God was speaking to me to go all out in ministry and give myself wholly.

			That was the end of every secular and business activity in my life. Since that day I have not been involved in any business at all. I have given myself wholly and utterly to the work of ministry. I believe that I am predestined to serve in the ministry.

			3.	You are predestined to be justified.

			Moreover WHOM HE DID PREDESTINATE, them he also called: and whom he called, THEM HE ALSO JUSTIFIED: and whom he justified, them he also glorified.

			Romans 8:30

			You are also predestined to be justified by God. In as much as you have been a wretched sinner, God has a plan to justify you and make you appropriately righteous. God wants to use you and it is determined that He will make you righteous and holy in His sight. Before this world began, God had predestined that Jesus Christ should come and die for our sins. Your justification to serve God is simply part of a long-standing plan of God.

			4.	You are predestined to be glorified.

			Moreover WHOM HE DID PREDESTINATE, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, THEM HE ALSO GLORIFIED.

			Romans 8:30

			Your destiny is to be glorified. Right on this earth, God has determined that you be glorified and made beautiful. All the beauty and attractiveness of your life is because of God’s glory on you. There are many people who smile at me and greet me with kind, warm and welcoming faces. I am always thankful to God for this. I could have had the opposite with people barking angrily at me. I am one hundred per cent sure that some people are happy to see me because of Christ and not because I am a medical doctor.

			I do not see people smiling at other medical doctors in the same way. Christ has made all the difference. People are only interested in me because of Jesus. Any glory or beauty in my life is because of Christ.

			From reports that I am receiving, people in Heaven are also completely glorified and magnified because of the glory that is on them. In Heaven you will be so glorified that no human on earth will compare with your glorified state.

			This glory that God is giving you is something that is predetermined.

			5.	You are predestined to be holy and blameless.

			According as he hath CHOSEN US in him BEFORE THE FOUNDATION OF THE WORLD, THAT WE SHOULD BE HOLY and without blame before him in love:

			Ephesians 1:4

			Before the foundation of the world, God had planned that you will be holy. To be holy means to be special. God’s plan for you to be unusual and special is nothing new.

			Before the earth had been formed, God had planned for you to be His special servant. Do not run away from your calling to be holy. Holiness is a special grace from God. Purity is not an evil thing. When you are holy you are saved from being animal-like. You are saved from being filthy and dirty before the Lord. Accept your calling to be holy.

			God is looking for people that are blameless. It is your destiny to be blameless. To become a bishop, you must be blameless. John Wesley, the founder of the Methodist Church, preached the doctrine of perfection. He urged Christians to attain to the highest standards. Of course, no one can attain those heights but it is your duty to aspire for the blamelessness to which you are called.

			6.	You are predestined to be in His presence.

			Just as HE CHOSE US in Him BEFORE THE FOUNDATION OF THE WORLD, THAT WE WOULD BE holy and blameless BEFORE HIM…

			Ephesians 1:4 (NASB)

			Your purity and holiness must be practiced before God. Righteousness is relative to the person who prescribes the rules. Human beings have different standards and rules of what they call righteousness.

			Some people consider wearing trousers a sin whilst others wear bikinis without even considering that they have sinned. These are all human standards, which vary greatly. It is important that our holiness and blamelessness is practiced before Him (i.e. in the presence of God) in love. It is God who must approve your righteousness and blamelessness!

			It is God who sets the standards. Once you are holy and perfect before Him, you are ok. Jesus gave us His standards. Listen to the standards of Jesus and you will never go wrong.

			7.	You are predestined to be adopted into a family.

			HE PREDESTINED US TO ADOPTION as sons through Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the kind intention of His will,

			Ephesians 1:5 (NASB)

			God has predestined you to have another family apart from your biological family. What a blessing. There is no point in resisting this amazing blessing. Today, you have many more brothers and sisters than you can ever relate with.

			God is providing for you by creating a family into which He has adopted you.

			God has predestined you to be adopted into the family of God. No matter how evil you have been, when you get saved you sense acceptance in the family of God. Many Christians become proud and wicked, not willing to admit others into the family. It is amazing that outsiders who were once sinners begin to act as house owners preventing others from coming nearer.

			Today, God is your father and you have a new family in Christ. Enjoy! I wish you all the best with your new family.

			8.	You are predestined to inherit the kingdom.

			Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world:

			Matthew 25:34

			Jesus told His disciples that the kingdom of God was prepared from the foundation of the world. The kingdom of God is for you and I to possess. Rise up and take the things of the kingdom seriously. What does it mean to inherit the kingdom? The kingdom of God brings healing, cleansing and freedom from demonic powers and devils. When you are deeply embedded in the kingdom of God, you will not be conscious of money. You will be able to freely give and freely receive. Freely have you received, freely give.

			And as ye go, preach, saying, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give.

			Matthew 10: 7-8

			In him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will, in order that we, who were the first to put our hope in Christ, might be for the praise of his glory.

			Ephesians 1:11-12 (NIV)

			9.	You are predestined to cause God to be praised.

			Also we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to His purpose who works all things after the counsel of His will, to the end that we who were the first to hope in Christ would be to the praise of His glory.

			Ephesians 1:11-12 (NASB)

			You are predestined to cause praise to come to God. Through your life and ministry many people will praise God. Churches will be filled with people who want to praise God. Your life will not cause people to insult God. Instead, through your life, through your faith and through your faithfulness many people will praise God. Ask yourself, “Are people praising God because of me?” Are groups of people giving thanks to God because of you?





Chapter 3




Predestined To DO Something





		 			For whom he did foreknow, HE ALSO DID PREDESTINATE TO BE CONFORMED TO THE IMAGE OF HIS SON, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified.

			Romans 8:29-30

You are predestined to be conformed to the image of His Son. In other words, you will look like Jesus. When we look at you, we are supposed to remember Jesus. When you think of Jesus what do you think of? You think of His good works. You think of His mighty works.

			Jesus did great things for God. Notice how the scriptures reveal the mighty works of Jesus. Jesus went about doing mighty works! Jesus went about doing good and healing all that were oppressed by the devil! Jesus went about cities and villages preaching and teaching and healing! This is the image you are destined to be conformed to.

			You will soon be doing the mighty works of Jesus if you follow your predestined plan. You will soon be preaching, teaching and healing if you follow the predestined plan. You are predestined to be conformed to the image of His son.

			And when the sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whence hath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which is given unto him, that even such MIGHTY WORKS are wrought by his hands?

			Mark 6:2

			How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about DOING GOOD, AND HEALING all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him.

			Acts 10:38

			But the Pharisees said, He casteth out devils through the prince of the devils. And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, TEACHING in their synagogues, and PREACHING the gospel of the kingdom, and HEALING every sickness and every disease among the people.

			Matthew 9:34-35

			1.	You are predestined to do good works.

			For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them.

			 Ephesians 2:10 (NASB)

			This is a fundamental truth of Christianity that has been hidden from the church. You were predestined to work for God before you were born. God has works that He is expecting you to accomplish. You must get to the job. Why do you think you are still alive? Why does God not take you to heaven today? He has decided to leave you on this earth so that you can do certain good works.

			I once read the testimony of a man who died of a heart attack and was resuscitated eight minutes after he was declared dead. When he came back to life, he told the story of how he went to heaven and was asked to return to earth. There was a clear command, “Go back, you have not finished your work! Your work on earth is not yet done.”

			Indeed, this is the basic reason why you cannot die now. It is not because you are not married or because you do not have children. It is because you have not finished the good works that were prepared beforehand that you should walk in them.

			2.	You are predestined to suffer.

			FOR TO YOU IT HAS BEEN GRANTED for Christ’s sake, not only to believe in Him, but also TO SUFFER FOR HIS SAKE

			Philippians 1:29 (NASB)

			You are also destined to suffer for God’s sake. You have been granted the opportunity to believe in Him as well as the opportunity to suffer. Christianity involves suffering. There are persecutions, blasphemies, defamation, painfulness, hurts, bitter experiences, bitter waters, betrayals, treachery, disloyalty, discontentment, disappointment, disillusionment, dejection, depression, abandonment, rejection, accusations, offences, difficulties, financial hardships, poverty, sickness, death and many other hardships that must happen in your life and ministry. It has been granted that you will suffer for Christ Jesus.

			Do not be surprised at all by these experiences. They are all part of the predestined sufferings that a man of God will encounter. How else will the scripture be fulfilled? If you do not experience these things how will the scripture that promises you suffering be fulfilled?

			Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. -- Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? BUT HOW THEN SHALL THE SCRIPTURES BE FULFILLED, THAT THUS IT MUST BE?

			Matthew 26:52-54

			Dear friend, it is not likely that you will be crucified on a cross. It is not likely that you will be executed in an electric chair. But you will suffer because that is the destiny of every Christian. Please note all the different ways in which suffering happens in our modern lives. The things you believe are accompanied by a set of sufferings that you will soon be ticking off and saying, “I know this and I know that. I have been through this and I have been through that.”

			I want to list them again. Do not forget it, when you walk with God, you are likely to encounter many of these. You must decide to overcome these sufferings: Bitter waters, persecutions, blasphemies, defamation, insults, painfulness, hurts, bitter experiences, betrayals, treachery, disloyalty, discontentment, disappointment, disillusionment, dejection, depression, abandonment, rejection, accusations, offences, difficulties, financial hardships, poverty, sickness, emotional upheavals, sorrow, tears, mourning, sadness, and even death.

			3.	You are predestined to demonstrate the wisdom of God to principalities and powers.

			Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ;

			And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ:

			TO THE INTENT THAT NOW UNTO THE PRINCIPALITIES AND POWERS IN HEAVENLY PLACES MIGHT BE KNOWN BY THE CHURCH THE MANIFOLD WISDOM OF GOD, according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord:

			Ephesians 3:8-11

			You are destined to demonstrate the wisdom of God to demonic powers. You are destined to show that obedience to the word of God causes great destruction and defeat to the enemies of God. Your life of obedience to God’s Word will demonstrate such overcoming wisdom to all forces of darkness.

			You will overcome such things as poverty, disease, treachery and wickedness through and by obeying the word of God.

			Your destiny is to show the demonic powers that the wisdom of God is superior to any other kind of thinking. As you follow the wisdom of God you will overcome evil spirits. Living a life of holiness and humility will reveal to the forces of darkness that following God is a better life than following the flesh and evil spirits.

			There is a lot of evil in this world.

			When you are born into the world, you encounter evil that you do not even understand. It is only by obeying God’s Word that you circumvent evil traps without even knowing that you are doing so. The wisdom of God is the word of God. It is the wisdom of God that makes you wise unto salvation.

			And that from a child thou hast known the HOLY SCRIPTURES, which are able to MAKE THEE WISE unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.

			2 Timothy 3:15

			As you see from the scripture above, following the scriptures make you wise. As you obey God, you will escape the demonic powers of poverty, sickness and disease that are in the world. The principalities of failure and disappointment will be defeated as you follow the Word.

			4.	You are destined to preach the unsearchable riches of Christ.

			UNTO ME, WHO AM LESS THAN THE LEAST OF ALL SAINTS, is this grace GIVEN, THAT I SHOULD PREACH among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ;

			And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ:

			To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God,

			ACCORDING TO THE ETERNAL PURPOSE WHICH HE PURPOSED IN CHRIST JESUS OUR LORD:

			Ephesians 3:8-11

			You are predestined to become a great preacher. Paul was destined to be a preacher among the Gentiles. Who are you destined to preach to? Where are you destined to preach? What is God’s destiny for you? Paul knew that it was an eternal purpose and destiny in Christ Jesus that he should preach among Gentiles. That is why he went to the Gentiles and ministered there all his life. Perhaps God has a city, a town, a nation or an island where He intends you to live for the rest of your life, preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ.

			5.	You are predestined and created to bring pleasure to God.

			Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created.

			Revelation 4:11

			We were created to give pleasure to God. Unfortunately, in the last days people will shift away from their pre-ordained destiny. Eighteen moral blemishes will characterize the human race of the last days. Men will love money, love themselves and love pleasures. Instead of trying to bring pleasure to God, they will concentrate on bringing pleasure to themselves.

			For men shall be LOVERS OF THEIR OWN SELVES, covetous (LOVERS OF MONEY,) boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, Traitors, heady, highminded, LOVERS OF PLEASURES more than lovers of God;

			2 Timothy 3:2-4

			Your calling and destiny is to bring pleasure to God and not to yourself. You must seek God’s great pleasure. What does God want from you? What makes Him happy? God is happy when you give Him your love, your heart, your worship, your honour, your money, your children and your soul.

			God will receive pleasure when you give Him your love! Give Him all your love.

			Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment.

			Matthew 22:37-38

			God will receive pleasure when you give Him your heart! Give Him all your heart.

			My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways.

			Proverbs 23:26

			God will receive pleasure when you give Him your worship! Give Him all your love.

			For thou shalt worship no other god: for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God:

			Exodus 34:14

			God will receive pleasure when you give Him your honour! Give Him all your respect and honour.

			A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I be a father, where is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is my fear? saith the LORD of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, wherein have we despised thy name?

			Malachi 1:6

			God will receive pleasure when you give Him your money! Give Him all your money.

			Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.

			Malachi 3:10

			God will receive pleasure when you give Him your children! Give Him all your children.

			But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.

			Luke 18:16

			God will receive pleasure when you give Him your soul! Give Him your soul.

			Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.

			Matthew 22:37





Chapter 4




Predestined for the Seven Blessings





		 			For whom he did foreknow, HE ALSO DID PREDESTINATE TO BE CONFORMED TO THE IMAGE OF HIS SON, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified.

			Romans 8:29-30

According to the scripture above, you are predestined to be conformed to the image of the Son of God. There are many pictures of the Son of God that you must believe in and follow. One of the most amazing pictures of Jesus is found in the book of Revelation. There, you see Jesus as a Lamb that was slain. Not only was the Lamb slain but also, He was declared worthy to receive seven blessings.

			Jesus Christ is endowed with seven blessings in the book of Revelation. You must have faith that these seven blessings are also your destiny. God knew beforehand that you would take up your cross and follow the Lamb. You are predestined to walk in the image of Christ. Christ suffered and died for our sins. He obeyed His father and became obedient, even to the death on the cross. After this great act of obedience, He became worthy to receive seven blessings.

			AND I BEHELD, AND, LO, IN THE MIDST OF THE THRONE AND OF THE FOUR BEASTS, AND IN THE MIDST OF THE ELDERS, STOOD A LAMB AS IT HAD BEEN SLAIN, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.

			And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne. And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints.

			And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation; And hast made us unto our God kings and priests: and we shall reign on the earth.

			And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands; SAYING WITH A LOUD VOICE, WORTHY IS THE LAMB THAT WAS SLAIN TO RECEIVE POWER, AND RICHES, AND WISDOM, AND STRENGTH, AND HONOUR, AND GLORY, AND BLESSING.

			Revelation 5:6-12

			I know that you are going to take up your cross and follow Jesus Christ. You are going to be a good example and go through all the pains, sufferings, trials and tribulations that God has ordained for you. As you conform to the image of Christ and go through His predetermined will, you will come out qualified to receive the seven blessings.

			You are qualified for the seven blessings because you are conformed to the image of Christ. The Christ you see in the book of Revelation is full of the seven blessings of power, riches, wisdom, strength, honour, glory and blessing. Begin to declare that your life is coloured with these seven predestined blessings.

			1.	You are predestined for power! Begin to walk in the power of God. Do not say you are powerless and weak. Accept the grace of God that brings you great power for your life and ministry.

			2.	You are destined for riches! Just like the Lamb, in whose image you are walking, you will receive riches and wealth from God. Life on this earth yields very little. Your working life yields little. The curse ensures that you get very little for all your hard work. This is why few people are ever able to work and own a house debt-free. Owning a house debt-free is indeed an indication of your work on this earth having yielded something more than sweat and tears.

			3.	You are destined for wisdom! Just like the Lamb in whose image you are walking, you will receive supernatural wisdom which is different from the wisdom of men. Through this supernatural wisdom you will circumvent all the traps that are laid for you by devils and demon spirits. You will escape and overcome in this life because you are conformed to the image of the Son of God.

			4.	You are destined for strength! Strength speaks of power and might. As you walk in the will of God and follow the destiny that God has for you, you will become stronger and stronger. When you are strong, a little effort yields great results! Your declarations will come to pass. Your effort will yield much fruit. Every punch you give the enemy will result in a knockout! Your enemy will not have access to destroy you any longer because your strength will ward off evil spirits.

			5.	You are destined for honour! Jesus Christ is the most honoured person in the world. We celebrate His birthday every year across the entire globe. The whole world comes to a halt when we celebrate His birth and His death. Even those who do not believe in Him somehow acknowledge His existence. As you follow in Christ’s stead, you will be conformed to His image. It is your destiny. You will soon be respected in the way that Christ is respected. Those who defame you, insult you and blaspheme against you will soon be put to shame. You are destined for honour. You are destined for respect! You are destined for nobility! You are destined for admiration! Receive the honour that comes from God.

			6.	You are destined for glory! You will receive the glory and the beautification that comes only from God. God alone can make you beautiful. You may have ugly parts but beauty comes from God. There are people who are not obviously or naturally beautiful. However, they attract people and there seems to be some other source of beauty with them. That is how the glory of God is. There is something nice and attractive that glows from within. It draws people and wins their hearts. It makes people admire and desire you without any good reason. This is what you are destined for. You are destined for the glory of God, the shine that comes from God! That is the destiny of God for you.

			7.	You are destined for blessings! You will receive a blessing from God. Jesus Christ received blessings from the Father. The seventh blessing is to receive a blessing. When you receive this blessing, you will be called “blessed.” No trace of a curse will be found in your life. Everyone will look at you and call you “blessed” because a blessing has been granted to you. You are predestined for a blessing!



		 			Predestined for the Seven Blessings





Chapter 5




Predestined To Live Forever





		 			For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

			John 3:16

		 			1.	You are predestined to live forever in either heaven or in hell.

			For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

			John 3:16-17

You are predestined to live forever. Obviously, seventy years on this earth is not your whole life. Your existence on this earth is just a small part of your real life. All dead people are still alive! They are living either in Heaven or in Hell. You are predestined to live forever. Will it be in Heaven or in Hell? That will be your choice.

			Do not start thinking to yourself, “I am predestined to go to hell so nothing can change me. I am destined to self-destruct and to commit sin every day because I am destined to go to hell.” Wrong! You are destined to live forever. You are not destined to be in hell. You are destined to live forever. Living in heaven or in hell for the rest of eternity is a choice you will have to make for yourself.

			2.	You are predestined to live forever in a mansion in heaven.

			In my Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.

			John 14:2-3

			You are destined to live forever in a mansion in Heaven. Jesus has gone to prepare a place for you. It is entirely up to you if you want to spend your time following mansions here on earth. God has in store for you something far greater than any mansion on this earth. Anything you have on this earth will be lived in for only seventy years or thereabouts.

			Ten thousand years from now the mansions you have built on earth will be buried in the sands of time. Just like the cities which are dug out of the ground by archaeologists, where you are currently living will be buried under the ground and equally dug out by archaeologists one day.

			Those who have invested in the heavenly mansions will still be smiling to themselves ten thousand years from now. Never forget that you are predestined to live in a mansion in heaven. Jesus has predicted that you will be there.

			And Jesus went out, and departed from the temple: and his disciples came to him for to shew him the buildings of the temple. And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things? verily I say unto you, There shall not be left here one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down. And as he sat upon the mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?

			Matthew 24:1-3

			The disciples were astonished when Jesus predicted that the temple would actually be destroyed. The temple of Jerusalem was one of the great monumental structures of the time. People came from all over the world to see this great temple. Yet, Jesus predicted that not one stone would remain on top of the other. None of them could have believed what Jesus was saying. But Jesus knew the future. He knows the future of every building on this earth and He did not bother to even build a church building. Honestly, our future is in eternity. We must live for the eternal and plan for the eternal.

			Have you ever wondered why Solomon was so depressed? He said,

			I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards: I made me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in them of all kind of fruits: I made me pools of water, to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth trees: I got me servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me: …

			THEN I LOOKED ON ALL THE WORKS THAT MY HANDS HAD WROUGHT, AND ON THE LABOUR THAT I HAD LABOURED TO DO: AND, BEHOLD, ALL WAS VANITY AND VEXATION OF SPIRIT, AND THERE WAS NO PROFIT UNDER THE SUN.

			Ecclesiastes 2:4-7, 11

			When Solomon looked on all that he had achieved, he realised that it was truly useless. We are destined to arrive in eternity. Let’s invest in eternal things! Everything we acquire on this earth is going to amount to nothing.

			3.	When you know that man is predestined to live forever you do everything to prevent people from going to hell and re-direct them to heaven.

			And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, all power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen.

			Matthew 28:18-20

			Jesus wants us to win the whole world to Him. He has sent us out into the world because He knows that the whole world is predestined to live in heaven or in hell for all eternity. When you consider predestination includes either heaven or hell, you will rise up and become the greatest evangelist you can be.

			4.	When you know that man is predestined to live forever you set your affections on things above.

			If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth.

			Colossians 3:1-2

			Being conscious of your predestination to live forever in eternity will make you set your affections on things above. Apostle Paul was very conscious of his predestination. He encouraged everyone to set their affections on things above. Why set your affection on things below? Why set your affections on things on this earth when you know that this earth is going to be set on fire and destroyed to the uttermost? Why do you set your affections on something so temporary when there are permanent things you can invest in? God is great! He has revealed to you His great plan for eternity. This is the arm that is stretched out to perform it. No one can turn back God’s arm. God’s arm is very strong. He will destroy this world with fire and replace it with a new world.

			But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, THE EARTH ALSO AND THE WORKS THAT ARE THEREIN SHALL BE BURNED UP. Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness,

			2 Peter 3:10-11

			One day I was standing with a friend who was looking longingly at some yachts in the ocean. We all knew that we did not have the money and the resources to ever own such yachts. So I quickly turned my affections on things above because I did not want to be sad. I declared, “I will have my yacht in heaven.”

			But my friend was adamant. He said that he wanted his yacht right here on earth. I always remember that night, looking over the Pacific Ocean at the many yachts belonging to the many millionaires who had anchored in the bay.

			We had different opinions. My friend had set his affections on things here on earth. But I had set my affections on things above (I knew I wouldn’t be able to get it on earth anyway). I do not see why I should bother to desire things that I will not be able to acquire any way.

			5.	Being conscious of your destiny to live forever makes you focus on things which are not seen.

			For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory; WHILE WE LOOK NOT AT THE THINGS WHICH ARE SEEN, BUT AT THE THINGS WHICH ARE NOT SEEN: for the things which are seen are temporal; but the things which are not seen are eternal.

			2 Corinthians 4:17-18

			Once the basic needs of life are met permanently, the confusion of life sets in. This is why the lives of celebrities and the super-rich are often a puzzle to poorer people. We, the masses, simply do not understand why their lives become so complex, twisted and bizarre. Perhaps, the reason for the bizarre habits of taking drugs and doing other things such as marrying different people, divorcing several times, being unable to stay married, is because rich people simply do not know what to do with their lives.

			The purpose of life has been stated by God. We were and are created for His pleasure. Once human beings do not live simply for the pleasure of God and their Creator, other futile purposes are thrown to them as possible pursuits that they may undertake. You no longer have several useless pursuits to choose from. The understanding of predestination simplifies your life.

			6.	Being conscious of your destiny to live forever in eternity frees you from the need to heap up riches.

			Heaping up of money is one of the useless pursuits that God wants to save you from. It is very difficult to know what to do when you have all the money you actually need. What to do next is the big question. As you keep heaping up riches, silver and gold and diamond, the madness of it gets to you. When will you use this money? What will you use it for? Where can you take it to? Who will you leave it for?

			Are We Mad?

			Many excessively rich people look like mad men because they keep piling up things that they can never use. Remember that mental patients tend to gather meaningless items together and sit in the midst of them. One wonders what they are thinking and what they will do with the rubbish they are heaping around themselves.

			The Hoarding Disorder

			The Diogenes Syndrome is a behavioural health condition characterized by poor personal hygiene, self-neglect, hoarding and unkempt living conditions and a lack of shame regarding one’s living condition. It is also called the Squalor Syndrome.

			Hoarding is a mental health disorder characterized by a persistent and powerful difficulty in getting rid of collected items, regardless of their value. Left untreated, this behaviour can lead to a variety of damaging social and emotional defects for both the hoarder and their family members.

			The Hoarding Disorder is a persistent difficulty discarding or parting with possessions, the build up of food and trash to unusually excessive unsanitary levels. It includes having problems like keeping or collecting items that have little or no monetary value, such as carrier bags. Hoarding disorders are challenging to treat because people who hoard frequently do not see it as a problem or have little or no knowledge of how it affects others. It is really important to encourage a person who is hoarding to seek help as their difficulty in discarding objects can cause loneliness and mental health problems.

			People who do not understand our predestination to eternal life try to heap up silver and gold. They are never satisfied with the piles and piles of wealth which they can never use. “He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity” (Ecclesiastes 5:10). The scripture clearly describes wealth as “that which is not”. “Wilt thou set thine eyes upon THAT WHICH IS NOT? for riches certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven.” (Proverbs 23:5)

			The heaping up of silver and the heaping up of gold and the heaping up of money is one of the things that you will not give yourself to when you understand your destiny. Many scriptures warn about the futility of heaping up wealth on this earth.

			Scriptures against Heaping Up of Wealth

			Your gold and silver is cankered; and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have HEAPED TREASURE together for the last days.

			James 5:3

			Though he HEAP UP SILVER as the dust, and prepare raiment as the clay; he may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the innocent shall divide the silver.

			Job 27:16-17

			Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are disquieted in vain: he HEAPETH UP RICHES, and knoweth not who shall gather them.

			Psalm 39:6

			LAY NOT UP FOR YOURSELVES TREASURES UPON EARTH, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal: But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal:

			Matthew 6:19-20

			For God giveth to a man that is good in his sight wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and TO HEAP UP, THAT HE MAY GIVE TO HIM THAT IS GOOD BEFORE GOD. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit

			Ecclesiastes 2:26

			For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and LEAVE THEIR WEALTH TO OTHERS.

			Psalm 49:10

			As you can see in these scriptures, men heap up wealth and leave the heaps for others. Unfortunately, most of the people who receive these heaps do not know how to use them.





Chapter 6




Predestined for Judgment





		 			And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment:

			Hebrews 9:27

It is appointed to men to be judged. You and I are predestined to appear before a judgment seat. You are not destined to go to hell per se. You are destined to appear in court and be judged for your life on this earth. Every little thing you did will receive judgment. Even giving a glass of water will receive its reward. It is important to know that you are hurtling towards your judgment day.

			There is nothing you can do about it. Judgment is predetermined. God has destined for every one of us to appear before Him and be judged.

			Predestination means predestined for judgment. Many people go through this life without ever entering a courtroom. Most people go through this life without knowing what it is like to appear before a judge. However, every single person on this earth is going to appear before the Judge of judges, the King of kings and the Lord of lords. We all have to stand in the courtroom of eternity one day.

			1.	Knowing your predestination is to appear before a judgment seat makes you desire to be acceptable and to do good things whilst in the body.

			Wherefore we labour, that, whether present or absent, WE MAY BE ACCEPTED OF HIM.

			FOR WE MUST ALL APPEAR BEFORE THE JUDGMENT SEAT OF CHRIST; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.

			Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but we are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences.

			2 Corinthians 5:9-11

			Since you must appear before God, you must desire to be acceptable to Him. To be pleasing to Him must be your heart’s desire. To love Him and make Him happy must be your quest every day. Will you be acceptable on the judgment day or will you be rejected? You must assess yourself using God’s standards. You will not be judged according to your own ideas but according to the word of God.

			2.	Knowing your predestination to appear before a judgment seat makes you desire to persuade men.

			FOR WE MUST ALL APPEAR BEFORE THE JUDGMENT SEAT OF CHRIST; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.

			KNOWING THEREFORE THE TERROR OF THE LORD, WE PERSUADE MEN; but we are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences.

			2 Corinthians 5:10-11

			We will be called to account for our lives. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may be repaid for what has been done in the body. Whether what we have done is good or bad, we will be held responsible for it. It is a sobering thought that we will be held responsible for all our motives, actions, deeds, negligence and accomplishments. Even the use and misuse of your time, opportunities and abilities will be brought before the judgment seat of Christ.

			Because you are destined to appear before the judgment seat you must persuade men. You must convince men to serve God. You must convince men to love God. You must have meetings where you persuade people to get ready for the great white throne before which they will be judged. Paul said he was constantly aware of the terror of the Lord and because of that, he was constantly persuading people to love God and to serve God.

			Unfortunately, many pastors are persuading people to acquire all the riches and gold in this world. We are prophesying things that will never happen. False illusions of prosperity are presented to the congregation every week. But God knows that what is required of us, is that we persuade men to give their lives to Jesus, to serve God and to worship Him.

			3.	Knowing your predestination to appear before a judgment seat makes you work urgently.

			That keeps us vigilant, you can be sure. IT’S NO LIGHT THING TO KNOW THAT WE’LL ALL ONE DAY STAND IN THAT PLACE OF JUDGMENT. THAT’S WHY WE WORK URGENTLY WITH EVERYONE WE MEET TO GET THEM READY TO FACE GOD. God alone knows how well we do this, but I hope you realize how much and deeply we care.

			We’re not saying this to make ourselves look good to you. We just thought it would make you feel good, proud even, that we’re on your side and not just nice to your face as so many people are. If I acted crazy, I did it for God; if I acted overly serious, I did it for you.

			2 Corinthians 5:11-13 (MSG)

			Indeed, it is no small thing to know that we will one day stand in that place of judgment. That’s why we work urgently and with speed to get people ready to meet God. Paul was ready to speak whether or not people thought he was mad. When you are conscious of eternal judgment you will have a certain intense urgency within you. Many people will not understand you. They will ask if you do not rest, if you do not sleep, and why you are always upset. How can you rest when the world is racing towards judgment and eternity? How can you rest when the devil is not resting? It is time to gird up your loins and speak and act and work as though the end will come tomorrow.

			One day, tomorrow will be the end! One day there will be no more days after tomorrow! It is time to work urgently and do everything urgently.

			4.	Knowing your predestination to appear before a judgment seat makes you desire to not live for yourself.

			FOR WE MUST ALL APPEAR BEFORE THE JUDGMENT SEAT OF CHRIST; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad.

			Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but we are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences.

			For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge, that if one died for all, then were all dead: And that he died for all, THAT THEY WHICH LIVE SHOULD NOT HENCEFORTH LIVE UNTO THEMSELVES, But unto him which died for them, and rose again.

			2 Corinthians 5:10-11, 14-15

			The scripture is clear: they that live on this earth “should not henceforth live unto themselves”! Because you are going to appear before the judgment seat, you must not live for yourself or do things just for yourself.

			I once met a man who was doing many things for himself. He was building houses for himself. He was buying houses for his family members. He was acquiring lands and fields for his extended family. He was building walls to secure his many properties. He was doing exercises to keep himself healthy. He was living in two houses so that he could go to work early. He was on a light diet so that he could stay healthy and live longer. He was exercising every day so that he could be stronger and more muscular. He was travelling abroad so that he could secure his business deals. But he was doing very little for the church.

			Indeed, this gentleman was living for himself. All his efforts were to build his life and his businesses. What is your time spent doing? What are your efforts for?

			We are told clearly that we can no longer live for ourselves “but unto Him who died for us and rose again”. It is time to live for Jesus! There is a song by Evie Tornquist that says “Live for Jesus, that’s what matters.” Indeed, one day all that will matter is what you did for Jesus.

			5.	Knowing your predestination to appear before a judgment seat makes you desire to “know no man after the flesh”.

			FOR WE MUST ALL APPEAR BEFORE THE JUDGMENT SEAT OF CHRIST; that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men; but we are made manifest unto God; and I trust also are made manifest in your consciences…

			For the love of Christ constraineth us; because we thus judge, that if one died for all, then were all dead: And that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them, and rose again. WHEREFORE HENCEFORTH KNOW WE NO MAN AFTER THE FLESH: yea, though we have known Christ after the flesh, yet now henceforth know we him no more.

			2 Corinthians 5:10-11, 14-16

			From henceforth, you must not consider people according to who they are in the flesh. Since you are going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, you must not be concerned about who people are in the flesh. Why is that? When you know someone after the flesh, you are conscious of his fleshly and human characteristics. The human and fleshly characteristics that a person has will stir you up to jealousy and racism. You will want to match and equal what the person is in the flesh. Racism is basically judging people after the flesh and after what you see.

			Knowing someone after the flesh is to be conscious of the person’s colour, tribe, nationality, car, house and wealth. Indeed, if you start trying to be like certain nations and tribes, rather than trying to be like Jesus, you may go astray.

			If you start trying to have the same car, house and wealth that other people have, you will be making a mistake. It is important that you do not know people after the flesh. I do not need to know men of God after the flesh. I do not need to know where they live or what cars they drive. I need to know them after the Spirit. I want to receive the word of God from them. I want to receive the anointing from them. That is what matters! Knowing things after the flesh will divert you into fleshly matters and take your mind away from heavenly things.

			6.	Knowing your predestination to appear before a judgment seat makes you not judge anybody.

			But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for WE SHALL ALL STAND BEFORE THE JUDGMENT SEAT OF CHRIST.

			Romans 14:10

			Why judge your friend since we will all appear before the judgment seat of God? Do not condemn or “set anyone at nought”.

			Because we will all finally appear before the judgment seat of Christ, it is important to avoid judging. Judgment is going to take place any way. Nothing is going to escape God’s attention. Those who deserve a curse will receive a curse. Those who deserve a reward will receive a reward. Just leave everything to God.

			Many times, we desire to step into the shoes of God and pass judgment on people. We want to punish them for what they have done and to make them suffer. But that is not your duty. We will all appear before the judgment seat.

			It will be sorted out. Those who deserve to receive suffering, shame and embarrassment will receive full doses of them all. God is Judge!





Chapter 7




How Predestination Affects Your Ministry





			Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but THIS ONE THING I DO, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those THINGS WHICH ARE BEFORE, I PRESS TOWARD THE MARK FOR THE PRIZE of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.

			Philippians 3:13-14

Understanding predestination leads to an intense, focused ministry.

			1.	Knowing your predestination for a prize helps you to focus and concentrate on one thing at a time.

			It helps you to do the one important thing for your life.

			Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but THIS ONE THING I DO, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those THINGS WHICH ARE BEFORE, I PRESS TOWARD THE MARK FOR THE PRIZE of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.

			Philippians 3:13-14

			It is important to understand the destiny that lies ahead of you. Your destiny that lies ahead of you will cause you to have a focused and intense ministry. You must have an urgent, intense, focused, fiery and driven ministry. When your ministry can be described as such, then it is clear that your eyes and your heart are focused on eternity.

			2.	Knowing your predestination for a prize helps you to forget about things that are behind.

			Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one thing I do, FORGETTING THOSE THINGS WHICH ARE BEHIND, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and if in any thing ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.

			Philippians 3:13-15

			Understanding predestination is to understand the things that lie before you. There are many things that lie ahead of you. God has great plans for you. If you look into the predestined plan of God, you will see that there are many things that lie ahead.

			It is important to forget the things that are past and press on to your destiny. Constantly looking backwards at failures and victories will not help you. No one can drive a car well when they are always looking into the rear mirror.

			When someone dies, it is important to leave behind the sorrow and press on to the life that remains. Loving the dead does not help you to move on to the things that lie in the future. Paul said that he chose to forget the things that were behind. Past victories must also be forgotten. Gloating over past victories is a grave mistake. It is important to forget your past victories and focus on the things to be done. There are things to do. There are places to go and there are more victories to be won.

			3.	Knowing your predestination of eternity makes you wise and helps you to concentrate on the will of God.

			See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Wherefore BE YE NOT UNWISE, but understanding what the will of the Lord is.

			Ephesians 5:15-17

			The days go by and they are gone forever. It is too late to mend a life that is past. When it is gone, it is gone for eternity.

			Your life spent is irrevocable. The life you have lived remains to be contemplated throughout eternity.

			Having in mind that you are destined to live forever in eternity will cause you to redeem the time or save time. Every day that passes is gone forever. You cannot relive your youthful days.

			I remember when I was a teenager, I served God with passion and I loved Him. But I cannot relive those days. I remember when I was in my twenties. I endured some of the greatest accusations, insults and persecutions of my life. Those were exciting days too. I enjoyed the ministry and served God with a passion.

			In those days, a fellow Christian brother called me the devil! I was surprised that so early in my life and ministry someone had insulted me so much. However, those days are gone! And gone forever! I cannot go back! Whatever is done is done for eternity.

			I remember when I was in my thirties and I had acquired my first church building. The excitement of building a church for God and starting branches of the church was bubbling in me. I remember when I began to travel all over the world having conferences and crusades. Today as I write, those days are gone forever. If I didn’t use that time well, sorry, they can never come back.

			I remember the great fathers God gave to me. I remember meeting T L Osborn, Fred Price, Kenneth Hagin, Reinhard Bonnke and Yonggi Cho. Today, the opportunity to meet such men is over. Even if I want to see them, it is not possible. They are resting in their graves, waiting for the rest of us to join them. That is why scripture asks us to redeem the time. (Ephesians 5:16)

			What did you have to do in the past? I can assure you; you cannot do that today!

			You have lost the opportunities of the days gone by. When you are in your third year you cannot do the examinations of the second year. If you had poor grades in the second year of university, you have to carry them on with you. If you have poor grades on earth, you have to carry them with you as a burden to eternity.

			1Let us give ourselves to this glorious mission unreservedly. Let us never think that our lives, our families are our own! Let us dedicate them all to God and to His work. Let us give ourselves wholly that our profiting may appear.1 Let us redeem the time. Eternity is our destination. We are predestined for a life in glory.



			1 William Carey, “The Life of William Carey: Shoemaker and Missionary... by George Smith. London: J. Murray, 1885.” Form of Agreement





Chapter 8




How Predestination Affects Your Life





			If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.

			1 Corinthians 15:19

If there was no eternity that is destined and determined for us, we would be the most miserable of all. You are destined for eternity. You are destined for an eternal existence.

			It cannot be that our existence on this earth is all that there is to life. If that is the case then even the life of a chicken may be better because when a chicken dies, it is still useful, in that, it can be eaten.

			Predestination helps you to overcome the futility, pointlessness and senselessness that characterizes life in this world.

			If you do not find your destiny, expect two words to describe your life: futility and vanity.

			1.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Work on earth is useless. Painful sufferings at work are pointless. Thank God for eternity! Heaven is our destiny. You are predestined to walk on the streets of gold.

			THEN I LOOKED ON ALL THE WORKS THAT MY HANDS HAD WROUGHT, AND ON THE LABOUR THAT I HAD LABOURED to do: and, behold, all was VANITY and vexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun.

			Ecclesiastes 2:11

			2.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Pleasure on this earth is useless and pointless! Thank God for eternity! Heaven is your destiny. You are predestined to walk on the streets of gold.

			I said in mine heart, Go to now, I WILL PROVE THEE WITH MIRTH, THEREFORE ENJOY PLEASURE: and, behold, this also is VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 2:1

			3.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Following the desires of your eyes is pointless and vain! Thank God for eternity! Heaven is your destiny. You are predestined to walk on the streets of gold (Revelation 21:21).

			ALL THAT MY EYES DESIRED I DID NOT REFUSE THEM. I did not withhold my heart from any pleasure, for my heart was pleased because of all my labor and this was my reward for all my labor. Thus I considered all my activities which my hands had done and the labor which I had exerted, and behold all was vanity and striving after wind and there was no profit under the sun.

			Ecclesiastes 2:10-11 (NASB)

			4.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Trying to be wise on this earth will not help much. Similar things happen to wise men and to fools. Thank God for eternity! Heaven is your destiny. You are predestined to walk on the streets of gold.

			Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so it happeneth even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, that this also is VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 2:15

			5.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Painful sufferings and travail at work is pointless. Thank God for eternity! Heaven is our destiny. You are predestined to live in heaven.

			Therefore I hated life; because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous unto me: for all is VANITY and vexation of spirit.

			Ecclesiastes 2:17

			6.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. All your works must be handed over to someone. You must leave everything behind. Will you leave it for a fool or will you leave it for a wise man? Thank God for eternity! Heaven is our destiny. You are predestined to be in heaven otherwise your life on earth would be completely useless.

			Yea, I hated all my labour which I had taken under the sun: because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me.

			And who knoweth WHETHER HE SHALL BE A WISE MAN OR A FOOL? yet shall he have rule over all my labour wherein I have laboured, and wherein I have shewed myself wise under the sun. This is also VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 2:18-19

			7.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. All your works must be handed over to someone. You must leave everything behind. You will leave it for someone who has not worked as hard as you did. Thank God for eternity! Heaven is our destiny. You are predestined to be in heaven otherwise your life on earth would be completely pointless and vain.

			For there is a man whose labour is in wisdom, and in knowledge, and in equity; YET TO A MAN THAT HATH NOT LABOURED THEREIN SHALL HE LEAVE IT for his portion. This also is VANITY and a great evil… For all his days are sorrows, and his travail grief; yea, his heart taketh not rest in the night. This is also VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 2:21,23

			8.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life and takes away vanity and futility of gathering up, heaping up only to give it away.

			For God giveth to a man that is good in his sight wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, THAT HE MAY GIVE TO HIM THAT IS GOOD BEFORE GOD. THIS ALSO IS VANITY and vexation of spirit.

			Ecclesiastes 2:26

			9.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. You must die just as all the animals do. What is the difference between the human being and the animal? Thank God for eternity! Heaven is our destiny. You are predestined to be in heaven otherwise your life on earth would be completely useless.

			For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; so that a man hath no preeminence above a beast: for all is VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 3:19

			10.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Because you work hard many people will be jealous and envious of you. Jealousy and envy is the reward for hard work on this earth. Thank God for eternity! Heaven is your destiny. You are predestined to be in heaven otherwise your life on earth would be completely useless. The hard work of Abel was hated by his brother Cain.

			Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, THAT FOR THIS A MAN IS ENVIED OF HIS NEIGHBOUR. THIS IS ALSO VANITY and vexation of spirit.

			Ecclesiastes 4:4

			11.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. There is endless purposeless work on this earth. The work on this earth for which there is 1) no end 2) no satisfaction 3) no fulfilment 4) no purpose. It is a blessing to be predestined to go to heaven. If God had not predestined us to be eternal beings to live in eternity with him, our lives here on this earth would not make any sense at all.

			 There is one alone, and there is not a second; yea, he hath neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour; neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whom do I labour, and bereave my soul of good? This is also VANITY, yea, it is a sore travail.

			Ecclesiastes 4:8

			12.	Knowing your predestination gives meaning to your life and takes away vanity and futility of popularity. You may gain popularity but your replacement may be even more popular. Also, your popularity does not guarantee that people will always be happy with you. Rebellious people are always amongst the masses when you rise into power. Thank God that you are predestined to stand in heaven where Jesus’ presence will give you fulfilment and all the acknowledgement that you need.

			A poor yet wise lad is better than an old and foolish king who no longer knows how to receive instruction.

			For he has come out of prison to become king, even though he was born poor in his kingdom.

			I HAVE SEEN ALL THE LIVING UNDER THE SUN THRONG TO THE SIDE OF THE SECOND LAD WHO REPLACES HIM.

			There is no end to all the people, to all who were before them, and even the ones who will come later will not be happy with him, for this too is vanity and striving after wind.

			Ecclesiastes 4:13-16 (NASB)

			13.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Acquiring more things is therefore useless and pointless. There is vanity and futility of never having enough money because the more you acquire the more expenses and bills you have. Thank God for eternity! Heaven is your destiny. You are predestined to walk on the streets of gold and be content in the presence of God.

			When good things increase, those who consume them increase. So what is the advantage to their owners except to look on?

			Ecclesiastes 5:11 (NASB)

			14.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life and takes away the vanity and futility of working but being able to enjoy the fruit of your labour. Many people do not enjoy the fruits of their labour. Many people have strangers enjoying what they worked for.

			Many millionaires own mansions on islands and have security men enjoying the mansions all year round. They may visit this island every two years but the security man is the one who enjoys the villa. Thank God that you are predestined to live in glory and in a mansion prepared by Jesus himself.

			A man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, and honour, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it: this is VANITY, and it is an evil disease.

			Ecclesiastes 6:2

			15.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life and takes away the vanity and futility of working hard and not enjoying a few good things.

			If a man fathers a hundred children and lives many years, however many they be, but his soul is not satisfied with good things and he does not even have a proper burial, then I say, “Better the miscarriage than he, for it comes in futility and goes into obscurity; and its name is covered in obscurity”.

			Ecclesiastes 6:3-4 (NASB)

			16.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life and takes away the vanity and futility of having to share this life with people who laugh but do not understand how leadership works, how governance works and how prosperity is generated. In eternity, which is your destiny, you will not have to bear such crackling of thorns under a pot.

			For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 7:6

			17.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life and takes away the vanity and futility of seeing wicked men flourishing whilst just men perish.

			All things have I seen in the days of my VANITY: there is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness.

			Ecclesiastes 7:15

			18.	Thank God for predestination! Thank God for eternity! Knowing you are predestined gives meaning to your life and takes away the vanity and futility of both holy men and wicked men being forgotten in the city where they lived. What then is the use of having been a holy man?

			So then I have seen the wicked buried, those who used to go in and out from the holy place, and they are soon forgotten in the city where they did thus. This too is futility.

			Ecclesiastes 8:10 (NASB)

			19.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. In this life good men seem to reap what a wicked man should reap and wicked men seem to reap what a righteous man should reap. This is another unfortunate and useless characteristic of this life. If that is all we are to ever experience then our life is really useless. Thank God for eternity. In eternity such injustices will not exist. Eternity will wipe away sorrow and pain. “And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.” (Revelation 21:4-5)

			There is a VANITY which is done upon the earth; that there be just men, unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked; again, there be wicked men, to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous: I said that this also is VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 8:14

			20.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. There will be many days of darkness on earth, days of futility, many sad days and many painful experiences. That is what the word of God promises you. What a painful existence we have! Thank God for eternity! Knowing you are predestined for a life in glory gives you a reason to live.

			But if a man live many years, and rejoice in them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be many. All that cometh is VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 11:8

			21.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Many of our childhood and youthful experiences are useless and pointless. When we are young, we think we are on top of the world. We think we know everything. However, many experiences are pointless, senseless and useless. In eternity, you will not have pointless, useless and senseless experiences. You are predestined for a glorious existence in eternity.

			Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh: for childhood and youth are VANITY.

			Ecclesiastes 11:10

			22.	Knowing you are predestined to an eternity with Jesus gives meaning to your life. Writing many books and reading many books makes you acquire knowledge and wisdom which you cannot use for long. The writing of books and the reading of the same are wearisome. I once saw a man who had written a thousand books. I was wondering when I would be able to read them. By the time you know all that you need to know, it is time to leave the earth. Thank God that the vanity and futility of learning and never having enough knowledge will soon be done away with. You are predestined for glory in the presence of God.

			And further, by these, my son, be admonished: OF MAKING MANY BOOKS THERE IS NO END; AND MUCH STUDY IS A WEARINESS OF THE FLESH. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.

			For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.

			Ecclesiastes 12:12-14





Chapter 9




The Predestination of Jesus





			For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.

			Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even for ever. The zeal of the LORD of hosts will perform this.

			Isaiah 9:6-7

The life of Jesus proves that predestination is real! All the scriptures in the Old Testament predict in detail how the Messiah would come and what will happen in His life and ministry. There are many things that Jesus could not control. The fact that He would be crucified between thieves was not under His control. The fact that He would be buried with the rich was not determined by Him. How could Jesus have decided how He would be buried after He was dead?

			A study of the predetermined life of Jesus Christ should make everyone have faith in the truth that we are basically acting out a script that has been written already. I am producing here, fifty-five scripts that were written hundreds of years before Jesus came on the scene. Truly, Jesus came in the volume of the book to fulfil the destiny that God had purposed years ago.

			Perhaps, this is how your life is too! You are fulfilling a destiny that is determined by God already! Spend your life seeking the will of God and praying that you will fulfil all the purposes and plans that God has already laid out for you.

			1.	Christ was predestined to come through Abraham.

			I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you I will curse; and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you.

			Genesis 12:3 (NIV)

			The predestination of Christ being a descendant of Abraham is fulfilled.

			And you are heirs of the prophets and of the covenant God made with your fathers. He said to Abraham, ‘Through your offspring all peoples on earth will be blessed.’ When God raised up his servant, he sent him first to you to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways.

			Acts 3:25–26 (NIV)

			2.	Christ was predestined to come through Isaac.

			Then God said, Yes, but your wife Sarah will bear you a son, and you will call him Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him.

			Genesis 17:19 (NIV)

			The predestination of Christ being a descendant of Isaac is fulfilled.

			Nor because they are his descendants are they all Abraham’s children. On the contrary, “It is through Isaac that your offspring will be reckoned.”

			Romans 9:7 (NIV)

			3.	Christ was predestined to come through Jacob.

			Your descendants will be like the dust of the earth, and you will spread out to the west and to the east, to the north and to the south. All peoples on earth will be blessed through you and your offspring.

			Genesis 28:14 (NIV)

			The predestination of Christ being a descendant of Jacob is fulfilled.

			The son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Terah, the son of Nahor.

			Luke 3:34 (NIV)

			4.	Christ was predestined to come through the tribe of Judah.

			The scepter will not depart from Judah, nor the ruler’s staff from between his feet, until he to whom it belongs shall come and the obedience of the nations shall be his.

			Genesis 49:10 (NIV)

			The predestination of Christ being of the tribe of Judah is fulfilled.

			And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli,…Which was the son of Aminadab, which was the son of Aram, which was the son of Esrom, which was the son of Phares, which was the son of Juda,

			Luke 3:23, 33

			5.	Christ was predestined to come through King David.

			When your days are over and you rest with your ancestors, I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, your own flesh and blood, and I will establish his kingdom. He is the one who will build a house for my Name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever.

			2 Samuel 7:12–13 (NIV)

			Predestination is fulfilled in the birth of Jesus.

			This is the genealogy of Jesus the Messiah the son of David, the son of Abraham.

			Matthew 1:1 (NIV)

			6.	Christ was predestined to be born of a virgin.

			Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign: The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and will call him Immanuel.

			Isaiah 7:14 (NIV)

			Predestination is fulfilled in the birth of Jesus by the Holy Spirit.

			The angel answered, “The Holy Spirit will come on you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the holy one to be born will be called the Son of God.

			Luke 1:35 (NIV)

			7.	Christ was destined to come out of Egypt.

			When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son.

			Hosea 11:1 (NIV)

			Predestination of Jesus in Egypt is fulfilled.

			So he [Joseph] got up, took the child and his mother during the night and left for Egypt, where he stayed until the death of Herod. And so was fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet: “Out of Egypt I called my son”.

			Matthew 2:14–15 (NIV)

			8.	Christ was predestined to come out of Bethlehem.

			But you, Bethlehem Ephrathah, though you are small among the clans of Judah, out of you will come for me one who will be ruler over Israel, whose origins are from of old, from ancient times.

			Micah 5:2 (NIV)

			Predestination of the Messiah’s birth in Bethlehem fulfilled.

			When he had called together all the people’s chief priests and teachers of the law, he asked them where the Messiah was to be born. “In Bethlehem in Judea,” they replied, “for this is what the prophet has written: “ ‘But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah; for out of you will come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel.’”

			Matthew 2:4–6 (NIV)

			9.	Christ was predestined to be a humble person.

			You have made them a little lower than the angels and crowned them with glory and honor. You made them rulers over the works of your hands; you put everything under their feet.

			Psalm 8:5–6 (NIV)

			Predestination of the Christ’s humility is fulfilled.

			But we do see Jesus, who was made lower than the angels for a little while, now crowned with glory and honor because he suffered death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone.

			Hebrews 2:9 (NIV)

			10.	Christ was predestined to give Himself as a sacrifice.

			Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required. Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written of me, I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law is within my heart.

			Psalm 40:6-8

			Predestination of the ultimate sacrifice of Jesus Christ fulfilled.

			Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second. By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.

			Hebrews 10:9-10

			11.	Christ was predestined to preach righteousness.

			I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I have not refrained my lips, O Lord, thou knowest.

			Psalm 40:9

			Predestination of Jesus’ preaching of repentance is fulfilled.

			From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

			Matthew 4:17

			12.	Christ was predestined to teach in parables.

			Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old:

			Psalm 78:1-2

			Predestination of Jesus’ teaching in parables to fulfilled.

			All these things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables; and without a parable spake he not unto them: That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world.

			Matthew 13:34-35

			13.	Christ was predestined to be ignored.

			And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but understand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not. Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed.

			Isaiah 6:9-10

			Predestination of the prophecy that the people would not heed Jesus’ messages fulfilled.

			Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand. And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Esaias, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see, and shall not perceive: For this people’s heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed; lest at any time they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and should understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them.

			Matthew 13:13-15

			14.	Christ was predestined to be the cause of stumbling.

			And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

			Isaiah 8:14

			Predestination that Jesus would be a cause of stumbling fulfilled.

			Unto you therefore which believe he is precious: but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed.

			1 Peter 2:7-8

			15.	Christ was predestined to minister in Galilee.

			Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when at the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and afterward did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations. The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined.

			Isaiah 9:1-2

			Predestination that Jesus would minister in Galilee fulfilled.

			Now when Jesus had heard that John was cast into prison, he departed into Galilee; And leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the sea coast, in the borders of Zabulon and Nephthalim: That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim, by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles; The people which sat in darkness saw great light; and to them which sat in the region and shadow of death light is sprung up. From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

			Matthew 4:12-17

			16.	Christ was predestined to attract the Gentiles.

			In that day the Root of Jesse will stand as a banner for the peoples; the nations will rally to him, and his resting place will be glorious.

			Isaiah 11:10 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would attract Gentiles fulfilled.

			Many people, because they had heard that he had performed this sign, went out to meet him. So the Pharisees said to one another, “See, this is getting us nowhere. Look how the whole world has gone after him!” Now there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the festival. They came to Philip, who was from Bethsaida in Galilee, with a request. “Sir,” they said, “we would like to see Jesus.”

			John 12:18–21 (NIV)

			17.	Christ was predestined to have a miracle ministry.

			Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert.

			Isaiah 35:5-6

			Predestination that Jesus would have a miracle ministry fulfilled.

			Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples, and said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another? Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see: The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them. And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.

			Matthew 11:2-6

			18.	Christ was predestined to have John the Baptist as a forerunner.

			The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain:

			Isaiah 40:3-4

			Predestination of John the Baptist as the forerunner of Jesus fulfilled.

			He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias.

			John 1:23

			19.	Christ was predestined to redeem the Gentiles.

			Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth. He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set judgment in the earth: and the isles shall wait for his law.

			Isaiah 42:1-4

			Predestination that Jesus would redeem the Gentiles fulfilled.

			But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence: and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all; And charged them that they should not make him known: That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall shew judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not strive, nor cry; neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory. And in his name shall the Gentiles trust.

			Matthew 12:15-21

			20.	Christ was predestined to be despised and rejected.

			He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.

			Isaiah 53:3

			Predestination that Jesus would be despised and rejected fulfilled.

			And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath,

			 Luke 4:28

			21.	Christ was predestined to set captives free.

			The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me; because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound;

			Isaiah 61:1

			Predestination that Jesus would set captives free fulfilled.

			And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read. And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised, To preach the acceptable year of the Lord. And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him. And he began to say unto them, this day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears.

			Luke 4:16-21

			22.	Christ was predestined to have an everlasting throne.

			I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, and they brought him near before him. And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed.

			Daniel 7:13-14

			Predestination that Jesus would have an everlasting throne fulfilled.

			And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS. He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David: And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end.

			Luke 1:31-33

			23.	Christ was predestined to ride a donkey.

			Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, thy King cometh unto thee: he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of an ass.

			Zechariah 9:9

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would ride a donkey fulfilled.

			On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass’s colt.

			John 12:12-15

			24.	Christ was predestined to be betrayed for thirty pieces of silver.

			And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my price; and if not, forbear. So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver. And the LORD said unto me, Cast it unto the potter: a goodly price that I was prised at of them. And I took the thirty pieces of silver, and cast them to the potter in the house of the LORD.

			Zechariah 11:12-13

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would be betrayed for thirty pieces of silver fulfilled.

			And the chief priests took the silver pieces, and said, It is not lawful for to put them into the treasury, because it is the price of blood. And they took counsel, and bought with them the potter’s field, to bury strangers in. Wherefore that field was called, The field of blood, unto this day. Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel did value; And gave them for the potter’s field, as the Lord appointed me.

			Matthew 27:6-10

			25.	Christ was predestined to walk in the anointing of Elijah.

			Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord: And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.

			Malachi 4:5-6

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would walk in the anointing of Elijah fulfilled.

			For this is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee. Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force. For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

			Matthew 11:10-15

			26.	Christ was predestined to be a Passover Lamb.

			Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said unto them, DRAW OUT AND TAKE YOU A LAMB ACCORDING TO YOUR FAMILIES, AND KILL THE PASSOVER. And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the bason, and strike the lintel and the two side posts with the blood that is in the bason; and none of you shall go out at the door of his house until the morning.

			For the LORD will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and when he seeth the blood upon the lintel, and on the two side posts, the LORD will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to come in unto your houses to smite you.

			And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons for ever. And it shall come to pass, when ye be come to the land which the LORD will give you, according as he hath promised, that ye shall keep this service. And it shall come to pass, when your children shall say unto you, What mean ye by this service? That ye shall say, It is the sacrifice of the LORD’S passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and delivered our houses. And the people bowed the head and worshipped.

			Exodus 12:21-27

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would be the Passover Lamb fulfilled.

			Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even CHRIST OUR PASSOVER is sacrificed for us:

			1 Corinthians 5:7

			27.	Christ’s bones were predestined not to be broken.

			It must be eaten inside the house; take none of the meat outside the house. DO NOT BREAK ANY OF THE BONES.

			Exodus 12:46 (NIV)

			Predestination that Christ’s bones would not be broken fulfilled.

			The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the sabbath day, (for that sabbath day was an high day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away. Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other which was crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already, THEY BRAKE NOT HIS LEGS: But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water. And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe. For these things were done, that the scripture should be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken.

			John 19:31-36

			28.	Christ’s blood is predestined to atone for our sins.

			For the life of a creature is in the blood, and I have given it to you to make atonement for yourselves on the altar; IT IS THE BLOOD THAT MAKES ATONEMENT FOR ONE’S LIFE.

			Leviticus 17:11 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would atone for our sins fulfilled.

			THIS IS MY BLOOD OF THE COVENANT, WHICH IS POURED OUT for many for the forgiveness of sins.

			Matthew 26:28 (NIV)

			29.	Christ has been predestined to be lifted up, giving life to those who look up to Him.

			So Moses made a bronze snake and put it up on a pole. Then when anyone was bitten by a snake and looked at the bronze snake, they lived.

			Numbers 21:9 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would be lifted up and give life to those who looked up to Him fulfilled.

			JUST AS MOSES LIFTED UP THE SNAKE IN THE WILDERNESS, SO THE SON OF MAN MUST BE LIFTED UP, THAT EVERYONE WHO BELIEVES MAY HAVE ETERNAL LIFE IN HIM. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe stands condemned already because they have not believed in the name of God’s one and only Son.

			John 3:14–18 (NIV)

			30. Christ was predestined to be forsaken.

			MY GOD, MY GOD, WHY HAVE YOU FORSAKEN ME? Why are you so far from saving me, so far from my cries of anguish?

			Psalm 22:1(NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would be forsaken fulfilled.

			About three in the afternoon Jesus cried out in a loud voice, ‘Eli, Eli, lema sabachthani?’ (which means ‘MY GOD, MY GOD, WHY HAVE YOU FORSAKEN ME?’)

			Matthew 27:46 (NIV)

			31. Christ was predestined to be scorned.

			“He trusts in the Lord,” they say, “LET THE LORD RESCUE HIM. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him.”

			Psalm 22:8 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would be scorned fulfilled.

			“HE SAVED OTHERS” THEY SAID, “BUT HE CAN’T SAVE HIMSELF! He’s the king of Israel! Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God. Let God rescue him now if he wants him, for he said, ‘I am the Son of God’.”

			Matthew 27:42–43 (NIV)

			32. Christ was predestined to be thirsty.

			My mouth is dried up like a potsherd, AND MY TONGUE STICKS TO THE ROOF OF MY MOUTH; you lay me in the dust of death.

			Psalm 22:15 (NIV)

			Predestination that Christ would be thirsty fulfilled.

			Later, knowing that everything had now been finished, and so that Scripture would be fulfilled, JESUS SAID, “I AM THIRSTY.”

			John 19:28 (NIV)

			33. Christ’s hands and feet were predestined to be pierced.

			Dogs surround me, a pack of villains encircles me; THEY PIERCE MY HANDS AND MY FEET.

			Psalm 22:16 (NIV)

			Predestination that Christ’s hands and feet would be pierced fulfilled.

			These things happened so that the scripture would be fulfilled: ‘Not one of his bones will be broken,’ and, as another scripture says, “THEY WILL LOOK ON THE ONE THEY HAVE PIERCED.”

			John 19:36–37 (NIV)

			34. It was predestined that they would cast lots for Jesus’s clothing.

			They divide my clothes among them and cast lots for my garment.

			Psalm 22:18 (NIV)

			Predestination that they would cast lots for Jesus’ clothing fulfilled.

			When the soldiers crucified Jesus, they took his clothes, dividing them into four shares, one for each of them, with the undergarment remaining. This garment was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. ‘Let’s not tear it,’ they said to one another. ‘Let’s decide by lot who will get it.’ This happened that the scripture might be fulfilled that said, ‘They divided my clothes among them and cast lots for my garment.’ So this is what the soldiers did.”

			John 19:23–24 (NIV)

			35. It was predestined that the Messiah will cry, “Into your hands I commit my Spirit.”

			Into your hands I commit my spirit; deliver me, Lord, my faithful God.

			Psalm 31:5 (NIV)

			Predestination that the Messiah would cry, “Into your hands I commit my Spirit”, fulfilled.

			Jesus called out with a loud voice, ‘Father, into your hands I commit my spirit.’ When he had said this, he breathed his last.

			Luke 23:46 (NIV)

			36.	It was predestined that everyone will abandon the Messiah.

			Because of all my enemies, I am the utter contempt of my neighbors and an object of dread to my closest friends—those who see me on the street flee from me.

			Psalm 31:11 (NIV)

			Predestination that the Messiah would be abandoned by everyone fulfilled.

			Then everyone deserted him and fled.

			Mark 14:50 (NIV)

			37. It was predestined that they will plot to kill God’s anointed.

			For I hear many whispering, “Terror on every side!” THEY CONSPIRE AGAINST ME AND PLOT TO TAKE MY LIFE.

			Psalm 31:13 (NIV)

			Predestination that they would plot to kill the Lord’s anointed fulfilled.

			Early in the morning, all the CHIEF PRIESTS AND THE ELDERS OF THE PEOPLE MADE THEIR PLANS how to have Jesus executed.

			Matthew 27:1 (NIV)

			38. It was predestined that the Messiah will be quiet before His accusers.

			Those who want to kill me set their traps, THOSE WHO WOULD HARM ME TALK OF MY RUIN; all day long they scheme and lie. I AM LIKE THE DEAF, WHO CANNOT HEAR, LIKE THE MUTE, WHO CANNOT SPEAK.

			Psalm 38:12–13 (NIV)

			Predestination that the Messiah would be silent before His accusers fulfilled.

			WHEN HE WAS ACCUSED BY THE CHIEF PRIESTS AND THE ELDERS, HE GAVE NO ANSWER. Then Pilate asked him, “Don’t you hear the testimony they are bringing against you?” But Jesus made no reply, not even to a single charge—to the great amazement of the governor.

			Matthew 27:12–14 (NIV)

			39. It was predestined that the Messiah would be abandoned by those closest to Him.

			Even my close friend, someone I trusted, one who shared my bread, has turned against me.

			Psalm 41:9 (NIV)

			Predestination that the Messiah would be abandoned by those closest to Him fulfilled.

			I am not referring to all of you; I know those I have chosen. BUT THIS IS TO FULFILL THIS PASSAGE OF SCRIPTURE: ‘HE WHO SHARED MY BREAD HAS TURNED AGAINST ME.’

			John 13:18 (NIV)

			40. Christ was predestined to drink vinegar and gall.

			THEY PUT GALL IN MY FOOD and gave me vinegar for my thirst.

			Psalm 69:21 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would drink vinegar and gall fulfilled.

			There they offered Jesus WINE TO DRINK, MIXED WITH GALL; but after tasting it, he refused to drink it.

			Matthew 27:34 (NIV)

			41. Christ was predestined to resurrect from the dead.

			I WILL NOT DIE BUT LIVE, and will proclaim what the Lord has done. The Lord has chastened me severely, but he has not given me over to death.

			Psalm 118:17–18 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would rise from the dead fulfilled.

			In their fright the women bowed down with their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, “WHY DO YOU LOOK FOR THE LIVING AMONG THE DEAD? HE IS NOT HERE; HE HAS RISEN! Remember how he told you, while he was still with you in Galilee: ‘The Son of Man must be delivered over to the hands of sinners, be crucified and on the third day be raised again.’”

			Luke 24:5–7 (NIV)

			42. Christ was predestined to be mocked and abused.

			I clothe the heavens with darkness and make sackcloth its covering. The Sovereign Lord has given me a well-instructed tongue, to know the word that sustains the weary. He wakens me morning by morning, wakens my ear to listen like one being instructed. The Sovereign Lord has opened my ears; I have not been rebellious, I have not turned away. I OFFERED MY BACK TO THOSE WHO BEAT ME, MY CHEEKS TO THOSE WHO PULLED OUT MY BEARD; I DID NOT HIDE MY FACE FROM MOCKING AND SPITTING.

			Isaiah 50:3–6 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would be mocked and abused fulfilled.

			Then the governor’s soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole company of soldiers around him. They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him, and then twisted TOGETHER A CROWN OF THORNS AND SET IT ON HIS HEAD. They put a staff in his right hand. Then they knelt in front of him and mocked him. ‘Hail, king of the Jews!’ they said. THEY SPIT ON HIM, AND TOOK THE STAFF AND STRUCK HIM ON THE HEAD AGAIN AND AGAIN. AFTER THEY HAD MOCKED HIM, they took off the robe and put his own clothes on him. Then they led him away to crucify him.

			Matthew 27:27–31 (NIV)

			43. Christ was predestined to be a prophet like Moses.

			THE LORD YOUR GOD WILL RAISE UP FOR YOU A PROPHET like me from among you, from your fellow Israelites. You must listen to him. For this is what you asked of the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly when you said, “Let us not hear the voice of the Lord our God nor see this great fire anymore, or we will die.”

			Deuteronomy 18:15–16 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would be a prophet like Moses fulfilled.

			“But do not think I will accuse you before the Father. Your accuser is Moses, on whom your hopes are set. IF YOU BELIEVED MOSES, YOU WOULD BELIEVE ME, FOR HE WROTE ABOUT ME. But since you do not believe what he wrote, how are you going to believe what I say?”

			John 5:45–47 (NIV)

			44. Christ was predestined to be a faithful priest who does God’s will.

			I WILL RAISE UP FOR MYSELF A FAITHFUL PRIEST, who will do according to what is in my heart and mind. I will firmly establish his priestly house, and they will minister before my anointed one always.

			1 Samuel 2:35 (NIV)

			Predestination that Jesus Christ would be a faithful priest fulfilled.

			For this reason he had to be made like them, fully human in every way, in order THAT HE MIGHT BECOME A MERCIFUL AND FAITHFUL HIGH PRIEST in service to God, and that he might make atonement for the sins of the people.

			Hebrews 2:17 (NIV)

			45. It was predestined that the Messiah will pour out His Spirit.

			For I will pour water on the thirsty land, and streams on the dry ground; I WILL POUR OUT MY SPIRIT ON YOUR OFFSPRING, and my blessing on your descendants.

			Isaiah 44:3 (NIV)

			Predestination that the Messiah would pour out His Spirit fulfilled.

			But very truly I tell you, it is for your good that I am going away. UNLESS I GO AWAY, THE ADVOCATE WILL NOT COME TO YOU; but if I go, I will send him to you.

			John 16:7 (NIV)

			46. It was predestined that the Messiah will usher in a new covenant.

			“The days are coming,” declares the Lord, “WHEN I WILL MAKE A NEW COVENANT with the people of Israel and with the people of Judah.”

			Jeremiah 31:31 (NIV)

			Predestination of the Messiah ushering in a new covenant is fulfilled.

			THIS IS MY BLOOD OF THE COVENANT, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins.

			Matthew 26:28 (NIV)

			Conclusion

			It is my prayer that you will recognize the power of predestination in all that you are doing.

			It is my prayer that you will recognize the power of predestination in your ministry.

			Trust God and watch the outplaying of all the things that God has destined for you.

			To the making of many books there is no end!





