The




Minister's Handbook


of


Ceremonies





DAG'/ TAPE/ & PUBLICATION



Unless otherwise state all scripture quotations are taken from the KING JAMES of the Bible





1st Printing 1998 2nd Printing 1999

Copyright © 1998 Copyright © 1999

A Lighthouse Chapel PiHotioB ISBN 9988-7798-3-6

All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from

the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





PREAMBLE TO NAMING CEREMONY


The Naming Ceremony is a traditional event that takes place after the birth of a child. Some families are very traditional and abide by all customs relating to the date and time of the event. The pastor's role is basically to introduce a biblical and spiritual perspective to the occasion. This of course is only possible depending on what the family requests or allows.





NAMING CEREMONY


1.OPENING PRAYER AND WORSHIP

~ He Is Lord

- O Come Let Us Adore Him

2. REASON FOR OCCASION

We are gathered here today with our brother

and sister, Mr. and Mrs..... (Last name of parents)....

for two reasons:

i. To rejoice over what God has done for them and

ii. To give a name to their newly born baby.

The Bible is the basis for whatever we do,

therefore, our scripture reading for today is:

-Luke 1:57-64-

Now Elisabeth's full time came that she should be delivered; and she brought forth a son. And her neighbours and her cousins heard how the Lord had shewed great mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with her.

And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child; and they called him Zacharias, after the name of his father.

And his mother answered and said, Not so; but he shall be called John.

And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name. And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called. And he asked for a writing table, and wrote, saying, His name is John.

And they marvelled all. And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he spake, and praised God.

As was done in those days, we want to call on the father of the child to give us the name(s) he desires to give to the child and the meaning(s) of the name(s).

3.GIVING OF NAME BY FATHER

Father stands up and mentions the full name of the child and the meaning(s) of

the name(s).

4. PROCLAMATION, SANCTIFICATION ANDAFFIRMATION OF NAME ON THE CHILD BY PRAYER.

i. Minister takes the baby and asks all to stand and join in prayer for the baby.

ii. Prayer and laying on of hands and anointing with oil.

PRAYER

Father, in the name of Jesus, thine only begotten Son, we thank you for the name(s) that has been given today. We sanctify this name(s) and we declare that this child shall be called ....[name(s) of child].... From today I pray that he shall live up to the meaning(s) of this name(s).

(The Minister makes reference to the name(s) and prays for the child to fulfill the purpose of the name, e.g., "John means 'Jehovah is gracious', May Jehovah God

be gracious unto this child always.")

I anoint this baby with oil as a symbol of the Holy Spirit, that he may live under the influence and power of the Holy Spirit, all the days of his life. Amen.

5.SONGS

~ Showers of Blessing

~ Ebenezer

6. BLESSING OF CHILD

Father, we thank you indeed for a good and perfect gift, the gift of a life. Thank you for blessing this family with this child. I cancel, I nullify, I reverse, and I reject every curse and every expectation of the enemy concerning the life of.... [name(s) of child]....



I bring down the walls of opposition, resistance, and frustration that are lifted up against the life of this child. I superimpose the will of God over and against every plan, every projection and prediction of the enemy for your life.



I speak the blessing of God over your life.

May the goodness and the favor of God be your portion all the days of your life.

May you live to be a blessing to your parents.

May you live to be a blessing to your generation.

May you become what God has destined you to be. In Jesus'mighty name. Amen.

7.CHARGE TO PARENTS

MINISTER: (To the parents.)

Do you promise to bring up this child in the ways of the Lord that he may not depart from them when he grows?

According to Deuteronomy 6:7, do you promise to teach him the Word of God when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up?

FATHER: I do.

MOTHER: I do.

BOTH PARENTS TOGETHER: We do.

MINISTER: Amen! Shall we clap for them.

(Minister returns the baby to the parents.)

8.SONGS

~ To God Be the Glory

~ Ebenezer

9.PRESENTATION OF GIFTS MINISTER:

Now, as was done in the days of Jesus when he was born, wise men came from the east with precious gifts.

I will now hand over to the Master of

Ceremonies as we receive gifts and presents for the baby.

10. MASTER OF CEREMONIES TAKES OVER



11.CLOSING PRAYER (At the time.)





PREAMBLE TO BABY DEDICATION


The dedication of babies is similar to the Naming Ceremony. This is usually conducted during a service in church.

The dedication takes place after the birth of the child. The minister's role in the Baby Dedication is to pray over the child and dedicate it to the Lord. This is done with the hope that when the child is of age he himself will come to know the Lord Jesus Christ.

You commit the child into the Lord's care and present the names and meanings of the names of the child to the congregation.

The ceremony is usually done at the end of a service and must be brief.





BABY DEDICATION


1.MINISTER WELCOMES THE FAMILY TO THE ALTAR

Minister introduces the family to the congregation.



2. REASON FOR OCCASION

We are gathered here today with our brother

and sister, Mr. and Mrs..... (Last name of parents)....

for three reasons:





i. Rejoice over what God has done for them,

ii. To give a name to their newly born baby and

iii. To dedicate this child unto the Lord.

As the Bible teaches, we will call on the father of the child to give

us the name(s) of the child and the meaning(s) to the name(s).



3.GIVING OF NAME BY FATHER

Father mentions the full name of the child and the meaning(s) of the name(s).





4.PROCLAMATION, SANCTIFICA- TION AND AFFIRMATION

OF NAME ON THE CHILD BY PRAYER.

i. Minister takes the baby and asks all to join in prayer for the baby.

ii. Prayer and laying on of hands.



5.PRAYER

Father, in the name of Jesus, thine only begotten Son, we thank you for the name(s) that has been given today. We sanctify this name and we declare that this child shall be

called... .[name(s) of child] From today I pray

that he shall live up to the meaning of this name(s).

(The Minister makes reference to the name(s) and prays for the child to fulfill the purpose of the name(s), e.g., "John means 'Jehovah is gracious', May Jehovah God be gracious unto this child always.")

6.BLESSING OF CHILD

Father, we thank you indeed for a good and perfect gift, the gift of a life. Thank you for blessing this family with this child. I reject every curse and every expectation of the enemy concerning the life of.... [name(s) of child]

I bring down the walls of frustration that are lifted up against the life of this child. I superimpose the will of God on this child, over and against every plan of Satan.



I speak the blessing of God over this life.

May the goodness and the favor of God be your portion all the days of your life.

May you live to be a blessing to your parents.

May you live to be a blessing to your generation.

May you become what God has destined you to be.

In Jesus' mighty name. Amen.





PREAMBLE TO WATER BAPTISM




Water Baptism is an important spiritual landmark in every Christian's life. It is one of the few ordinances that Christians are expected to perform. The pastor is expected to ensure that all Christians under his care have been duly baptized. It is also important to have a good understanding of the biblical and spiritual significance of this event. Water Baptism can be performed by those designated to do so.



NOTES ON BAPTISMAL ATTIRE AND PROCEDURE

INSTRUCTIONS FOR LADIES:

Thick trousers must be worn (not see through)

Ladies should not be in their menstrual periods.

Ladies are not to wear only underwear, underpants or

underpants and bra.

No swimming costumes allowed.

No bear chested ladies allowed.

All ladies must be fully covered.



All ladies must wear bras under their shirts.

Ladies and men must not change clothes in

view of each other.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR BAPTIZER:

The baptiser should not be bare-chested. The baptiser must be fully and properly dressed. A baptismal gown, trousers, a pair of big shorts, a t-shirt or shirt may be worn.

INSTRUCTIONS ON IMMERSION:

Tell the candidate to hold nose and close eyes. Baptiser holds candidate with one hand behind candidate, and the other hand on the forehead. Baptiser fully immerses candidate in water and raises him up again.





WATER BAPTISM


1.OPENING PRAYER

2. REASONS FOR BAPTISM

We are gathered here today to baptize these believers according to the Word of God. The basis for baptism is:

i. To obey the Word of God.

ii. It is one of the requirements after being Born Again.

Acts 8:36-38.

iii. It is an outward symbol of what has happened to you spiritually.

Colossians 2:12.

iv. To fulfill all righteousness.



SCRIPTURES:

i. Mark 16:16-

He that believeth and is baptized shall be

saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.

ii. Acts 10:47,48-

Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we? And he

commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord...

iii. Acts 8: 36-38-

And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water: and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God ....and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.





iv. Colossians 2:12-

Buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead.





v. Matthew 3:15-16-

...Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him. And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending...

3. ENTER THE WATER WITH THE BAPTISMAL CANDIDATE





4. ASK THE BAPTISMAL CANDIDATE THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS

· Are you Born Again?

· Have you received Christ as your personal Saviour?

· Do you believe that Jesus died for you on the cross and that He rose again?

· Do you believe that Jesus Christ will be coming again to take His church away?





(If you get a negative answer to any of the following questions:



Abort the Baptism ceremony immediately

Lead the individual to accept Christ as his Saviour

You may continue to baptize the

individual if he genuinely receives the Lord as Saviour)

5. lead the baptismal candidate in the following confession





· I am a Born Again Christian. I believe that Jesus died for me and that He rose from the dead on the third day.

· By faith, I believe that all my sins are washed away in the blood of Jesus.

· I believe that my name is in the Book of Life.

· I am now looking and expecting the return of my Master and Saviour, Jesus Christ who will come in the clouds to take away His own.

· As I go down into the water I identify myself with the death and burial of Jesus Christ. As I come up out of the water I identify myself with the resurrection of the Lord.

· I am being baptized to fulfill all righteousness as the Lord himself did.

6. IMMERSE THE BAPTISMAL CANDIDATE FULLY IN THE WATER Ensure that he is fully submerged.

(Ask him to hold his breath and his nose as he is immersed.)



7. AFTER CANDIDATE HAS CHANGED

Brief worship time. Thank the Lord.



8. CLOSING PRAYER





ENGAGEMENT CEREMONY


Engagements are usually family affairs. The pastor's involvement will very much depend on what the family requests or allows. The minister is not there to change customs and traditional practices, but to secure God's blessings in all that is done.

Typically, the pastor may be asked to do any of the 'following:

a. An opening prayer.

b. A prayer to bless the ring and other jewels after presentation.

c. The closing prayer.

The pastor should therefore flow as the occasion demands.





PREAMBLE TO DEDICATION OF HOMES, BUSINESSES, SHOPS, etc.


At varying times in the ministry, members will ask the minister to impart God's blessing on their new homes, businesses or shops.

The pastor's role is to bless, sanctify and dedicate the business or home into the Lord's hand. This dedication takes place on the actual site and is marked by the pouring of oil on the site as a symbol of the Holy Spirit's blessing.





DEDICATION OF HOMES, BUSINESSES, SHOPS, etc




1.OPENING PRAYER

2.WORSHIP

~ To God Be the Glory

~ Ebenezer

3. INTRODUCTORY REMARKS FROM

HOME/BUSINESS OWNER

The reason for the occasion.

A testimony of God's provision.

4.SCRIPTURE READING:

Deuteronomy 8:2,7-18-

And thou shalt remember all the way which :he LORD thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness,to humble thee, and to prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments, or no.



For the LORD thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water... a land of wheat, and barley, and vines, and fig trees... A land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack any thing in it...



When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the LORD thy God for the good land which he hath given thee...



Beware that thou forget not the LORD thy God, in not keeping his commandments...



Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses, and dwelt therein...

and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied;

Then thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the LORD thy God... Who led thee... Who fed thee... And thou say in thine heart, My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth.

But thou shalt remember the LORD thy God: for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant (His Word and His work)...

5.EXHORTATION BY MINISTER

The scriptural exhortation should center on:



i. Thanking God for His divine provision.

ii. An admonition to the individual to remember God in the times of blessing.

6.SONG

~ To God Be the Glory

~ Ebenezer

7. DEDICATION

i. Acknowledge that the work has ended by God's grace.

1 Kings 7:51-

So was ended all the work that king Solomon made for the house of the LORD.

And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated...

ii. The ministers or elders of the church are assembled together to pray and dedicate the project.

1 Kings 8:1,3-



Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel and all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel...

all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.

iii.Acknowledge God's faithfulness in completing the project.



1 Kings 8:1,22-24-

And Solomon stood... in the presence of all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven:

and he said LORD God of Israel, there is no God like thee... who keep est covenant and mercy with thy servants that walk before thee with all their heart... thou speakest also with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thine hand, as it is this day.

iv.Dedicate the project to the Lord, asking for God's

presence to continually remain there.

2 Chronicles 6:40-42-



Now, my God... arise, O LORD God, into thy resting place... O LORD God, turn not away the face of thine anointed...

v.Ask for God's continued blessing in every undertaking.



1 Kings 8:35-36-

When heaven is shut up, and there is no rain... if they pray... and confess thy name...

Then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants... that thou teach them the good way wherein they should walk...

vi. Anoint the premises with oil and declare God's blessings on the project.



8.WORSHIP

~ We Thank You Lord



~ To God Be the Glory

9.CLOSING PRAYER



10.REFRESHMENTS





STANDARD WEDDING CEREMONY




1.HYMN l

(Whilst Ministers file in and take their seats.)



2.BRIDAL MARCH

(Whilst bridal party files in.)



3. BRIEF TIME OF WORSHIP



4.INTRODUCTION

(Whilst at altar; couple stands, congregation sits.)





MINISTER:

Dearly Beloved, we are gathered here in the sight of God, and in the face of this Congregation, to join together this man and this woman in Holy Matrimony, which is an honourable estate, instituted of God Himself, signifying unto us the mystical union that is betwixt Christ and His Church. Which Holy estate Christ adorned and beautified with His presence in the first miracle which He wrought in Cana of Galilee. And is commended in Holy writ to be honourable among all men, and therefore is not by any to be enterprised nor taken in hand unadvisedly, lightly or wantonly. But reverently, discreetly and soberly and in the fear of God, duly considering the causes for which matrimony was ordained.



FIRST, it was ordained for the increase of mankind according to the will of God, and that children might be brought up in the fear and nurture of the Lord, and to the praise of His Holy Name.



SECOND, it was ordained for a remedy against sin, and to avoid fornication; that such persons that have not the gift of self-control might marry, and keep themselves undefiled members of Christ's body.



THIRD, it was ordained for mutual society help and comfort, that the one ought to have of the other both in prosperity and adversity.

Into which Holy estate these two (2) persons present, come now to be joined.

5. LEGAL CHARGE



MINISTER:

I require and charge you both as you will answer at the day of judgement, when the secrets of all hearts will be disclosed, that if either of you know of any impediment why you may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony, ye do now confess it, for be ye well assured, that so many as are coupled together otherwise than God's Word doth allow, are not joined together by God, neither is their matrimony lawful.



MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

I do solemnly declare/ that I know not of any lawful impediment/ why I ....(Name of bridegroom)... J may not be joined in matrimony tO ....(Name of bride)....



MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I do solemnly declare/ that / know not of any lawful impediment/ why I ....(Name of bride)..../ may not be joined in matrimony to

....(Name of bridegroom )....

6. "I WILL" VOWS



MINISTER: (To the Bridegroom.)

....(Name of bridegroom)...., wilt thou have this

woman standing by your side to be thy wedded wife, to live together after God's ordinance, in the Holy estate of Matrimony; wilt thou love her, comfort her, honour and keep her, and forsaking all others, keep thee only unto her, so long as you both shall live?





BRIDEGROOM: I certainly will.



MINISTER: (To the Bride.)

....(Name of bride)...., wilt thou have this man standing by your side to be thy wedded husband, to live together after God's ordinance in the Holy estate of Matrimony, wilt thou obey him and serve him, love, honour and keep him, and forsaking all other, keep thee only unto him, so long as you both shall live?

BRIDE: I certainly will.

7.GIVING AWAY OF BRIDE MINISTER:

Who giveth this woman to be married to this man?

(Father stands, comes to the microphone and says:)

I, ....(Name of father).... OH this ....(date).... do freely and willingly give away my daughter... .(Name of daughter).... in marriage, with all my blessings.

(Father thanked and applauded by congregation.)

8. EXCHANGE OF VOWS

(Instruct couple to face each other.)



MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

I, ....(Name of bridegroom).../according to the Word of God,/ leave my father and my mother / and I join myself to you,/ to be a husband to you./ From this moment forward,/1 shall love you,/ and I shall give myself to you,/ and we shall be one.



MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I, ....(Name of bride)....,/according to the Word of God,/ submit myself to you,/ to be a wife to you./ From this moment forward,/1 shall love you,/ and I shall give myself to you,/and we shall be one.





9. INTRODUCTION TO RING SERVICE

MINISTER: May I have the rings please.

These rings are precious ornaments, made out of pure gold. May the gold in these rings remind you of how pure your marriage shall be. These rings are given as a token and a symbol of your love and trust.

When you see these rings on your fingers, let them remind you of your love. Let them always remind you of the vows and promises you have made to each other this day.

Remember that real love is as strong as death and many waters cannot quench it, neither can the floods drown it. If anyone would break up this union, it would be Satan. Therefore give him no place. Give him no place. This marriage is forever.

Let us pray.





10. PRAYER OVER RINGS



MINISTER:

In thy name O Lord, we hallow and dedicate these rings that by thy blessing, he who gives it and she who wears it keeping true faith for one to the other, may abide together in thy peace, continue together in thy favour, live together in thy love, and finally dwell together in thine eternal Kingdom through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

11.EXCHANGE OF RINGS

MINISTER: To Bridegroom whilst giving him Bride's ring.

I want you to place this ring on her finger with these things in mind. You are the Head of this union. This woman stands by your side, not at your feet.

I want her to wear this ring in remembrance that she is your help mate. It is not a symbol of domination but a reminder of love. So place this ring on her finger, and as you do, say this to her:





MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

(Mention first name of Bride three times).... With this ring,/1 thee wed./ I give it as a token of my faith./ I believe with all my heart/ that this marriage is forever./ It is all my love and all my faith,/ in the name of Jesus.

MINISTER: To Bride whilst giving her Bridegroom's ring.

I want you to place this ring on his finger with these things in mind. This man is your Head. You have been called to help and support him.

Stand by him in all things, spiritually, physically and socially knowing that two are better than one. Now place this ring on his finger and as you do, say this to him.

MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

(Mention first name of Bridegroom three times).... With this ring,/1 thee wed./ I give it as a token of my faith./ I believe with all my heart/that this is forever./ It is my love, my sweet love,/ in the name of Jesus.





12.BRIDE AND BRIDEGROOM KNEEL FOR PRAYER, AND LAYING ON OF HANDS

13.PRONOUNCEMENT OF MARRIAGE (Couple stands.)



MINISTER:

For as much as ....(Name of bridegroom)...., and ....(Name of bride).... have consented together in Holy wedlock, and have witnessed the same before God and this company, and thereto have given and pledged their troth either to the other, and have declared the same by giving and receiving of rings, I pronounce that they be man and wife together in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.





14. SOLO

(In His time He makes all things beautiful.)

15. REMOVAL OF VEIL AND SALUTATION OF BRIDE [Ask the

(Bridegroom to remove the Bride's veil and salute (kiss) his Bride.)

16. COMMUNION

MINISTER:

The couple will now receive Communion together. Hitherto they have come to the Lord's table as separate individuals but now they come as one flesh. The celebration of communion is to remind us all that it is because of what Christ has done for us that we are here in the first place. The Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks broke it and said, take, eat, this is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, this cup is the new testament in my blood. This do ye, as oft as ye drink in remembrance of me. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till He come.

Let us pray.

(Bless the bread and the wine. Thank God for Jesus Christ's sacrifice.)

17. HYMN II



18. SIGNING OF REGISTER & OFFERING



19.BIBLE READINGS



20.SERMON

21. CHARGE AND BLESSING

(Couple stands, congregation sits.)





MINISTER:

"I now charge you in the presence of God Almighty that you trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not on your own insight. In all your ways acknowledge him. And He will direct your paths".

These blessings will come on you and overtake you, if you will hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God.



Blessed shall thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in the field.

Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body. Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store.

Blessed shall thou be when thou cometh in, and blessed shall thou be when thou goest out.

The Lord shall cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thy face: they shall come out against thee one way, and flee before thee seven ways.

The Lord shall command the blessing upon all that thou settest thine hand unto. The Lord shall establish thee an holy people unto himself.

And the Lord shall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruit of thy body. And thou shalt lend unto many and thou shalt not borrow.

And the Lord shall make thee the head, and not the tail; and thou shalt be above only and thou shalt not be beneath; if that thou hearken unto the commandments of the Lord thy God.

22.PRAYER OF BLESSING



23.PRESENTATION TO CONGREGATION

MINISTER: (To Bride & Groom:)

Please turn and face this congregation.

(To Congregation:)

Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you Mr./ Dr./Rev./Pastor/Etc. and Mrs./Dr. Mrs



(Lastname of bridegroom)....

24. WEDDING MARCH

25. COUPLE FILES OUT

(Followed by ministers then families.)





PREAMBLE TO CONCISE WEDDING CEREMONY




This ceremony is intended to take a shorter time than the standard wedding ceremony. It also presents an alternative set of vows, promises and proclamations. There are times when the couple may be late in arriving and a shorter ceremony may be more apt. There may also be mitigating circumstances which make it necessary to have a short ceremony. Use this set of vows as the occasion demands.





CONCISE WEDDING CEREMONY




1.HYMN l

(Whilst Ministers file in and take their seats.)



2.BRIDAL MARCH

(Whilst bridal party files in.)



3. BRIEF TIME OF WORSHIP



4.INTRODUCTION

(Whilst at altar; couple stands, congregation sits.)



MINISTER:

Dearly Beloved, we are gathered here in the sight of God, and in the face of this Congregation, to join together this man and this woman in Holy Matrimony, which is commended of the Apostle Paul to be honourable among all men.

Into which Holy estate these two come now to be joined.





5.LEGAL CHARGE

I require and charge you both that if you know of any just cause why you may not marry, you should, with all sincerity say so now, not forgetting that any two coupled together in contradiction to the Word of God are not joined together by God, neither is such matrimony lawful.



MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

I solemnly declare/ that I do not know of any lawful impediment/ why I ....(Name of bridegroom)..../ may not be joined in matrimony tO ....(Name of bride)....

MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I solemnly declare/ that I do not know of any lawful impediment/ why I ....(Name of bride)..../ may not be joined in matrimony to ....(Name of bridegroom)....





6."I DO" VOWS



MINISTER: (To Bridegroom.)

....(Name of bridegroom)...., do you love ....(Name of bride)....

and do you receive her now to be your wedded wife? Do you promise to honour and cherish her and forsaking all others, cleave only unto her as long as both of you shall live?





BRIDEGROOM: I do.



MINISTER: (To Bride.)

....(Name of bride)...., do you love ....(Name of bridegroom).... and do you receive him now to be your wedded husband? Do you promise to obey, honour and cherish him and forsaking all others, cleave only unto him as long as both of you shall live?



BRIDE: I do





7. GIVING AWAY OF BRIDE MINISTER:

Who gives the bride away into marriage?





BRIDE'S FATHER: I do





8. EXCHANGE OF VOWS

(instruct couple to face each other.)

MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

I, __ (Name of bridegroom).... / according to the

Word of God,/ leave my father and my mother/ and I join myself to you,/ to be a husband to you./From this moment forward,/ we shall be one.

MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I, ....(Name of bride)....,/according to the Word of God,/ submit myself to you,/ to be a wife to you./ From this moment forward,/ we shall be one.

9.INTRODUCTION TO RING SERVICE



MINISTER:

Made of gold, one of the purest metals, the ring suggests your commitment to unfailing purity and fidelity in your marriage. As you wear it, may you be continually reminded of this commitment. Also, a ring is a complete circle with no point of division. This demonstrates a commitment on your part to remain unseparated for the rest of your lives.





10. PRAYER OVER RINGS MINISTER:

Father, we ask you to redeem these rings with the blood of Jesus, and bless them, that as they wear them, it will be a promise to keep their vows as long as they live. In Jesus' name.





11. EXCHANGE OF RINGS

(Presents ring to Bridegroom.)



MINISTER:(Bridegroom repeating after.)

(Mention first name of Bride 3 times) ....(Name of bride)....With this ring/1 commit all my love to you./ As I love the Lord,/so do I love you./ I receive you as God's gift to me./ As God enables me,/1 will lead our home spiritually,/ physically/ and socially/ under the Lordship of Jesus Christ./ I will seek to support and encourage you/ through each challenge of life./ All that is mine is yours/ until death shall part us.

(Presents ring to the Bride.)



MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

(Mention first name of Bridegroom 3 times).



...(Name of bridegroom).... With this ring/1 commit all my love to you./ As I love the Lord,/ so do I love you./ I receive you as God's gift to me./ I trust the Lord/ to enable me to be submissive to you/ as my spiritual head/ and leader of our home./

I will seek to support/ and encourage you/ spiritually,/ physically/ and socially/ through each challenge of life./ All that is mine is yours/ until death shall part us.

12. BRIDE AND BRIDEGROOM KNEEL FOR PRAYER,

AND LAYING ON OF HANDS



13.PRONOUNCEMENT OF MARRIAGE (Couple stands.)



MINISTER:

For as much as ....(Name of bridegroom)...., and ....(Name of bride).... have openly declared their intention before God and this congregation, to keep all the vows they have made to each other today, it is my privilege as a minister of the gospel and by the authority vested in me by the Lord Jesus Christ, to pronounce from this day forward: You are husband and wife. Amen

14. REMOVAL OF VEIL & SALUTATION

(Ask Bridegroom to remove veil and kiss his Bride.)



15. HYMN II



16. SIGNING OF REGISTER & OFFERING



17.BIBLE READING

18. SERMON

19. CHARGE AND BLESSING (Couple stands, congregation sits.)

May the Lord bless you with the dew of heaven and the good things of above. May He bless you with the fatness of the earth, the corn, the oil, and the wine. May the Lord bless you, multiply you and make you great in the land.

May your horn be exalted like the horn of the unicorn and may your marriage always be anointed with fresh oil. Be planted in the House of the Lord and flourish in the courts of our God. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.

20.PRESENTATION TO CONGREGATION

MINISTER: (To Bride & Groom:)

Please turn and face this congregation.

(To Congregation)

Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you Mr.

and Mrs.... .(Last name of bridegroom)....

21. WEDDING MARCH





PREAMBLE TO OFFICE BLESSING




Some couples encounter circumstances which do not allow them to have a fullblown wedding ceremony in the church. For instance, there may be financial hindrances preventing a regular wedding ceremony at the time. Also, publicly known immorality and pregnancies may necessitate such an event. Some couples simply prefer a quieter ceremony.

It is in such circumstances that you may have to use this "Office Blessing" set of vows.

This ceremony is a little different from the regular ones as the couple may wish to have a standard wedding ceremony later on. This ceremony is held in the church office and must be brief.





OFFICE BLESSING




1. OPENING PRAYER AND WORSHIP

(One of the two songs can be sung.)

i. ~ To God Be the Glory

ii. ~ Showers of Blessings

2.INTRODUCTION (Couple stands, and witnesses sit.)



MINISTER:

We are assembled today under the banner of the Lord to bless this marriage. The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord and He delighteth in his way. Except the Lord build the house, we know that we build in vain. We therefore, come before the Lord at this time:

i. To acknowledge Him in this marriage as the Giver of all good things.

ii. To fulfill all righteousness as required by the laws of the land and the Church.

iii.To ask the Lord for His hand, His favour, and His blessing upon the marriage between...

(Name of bridegroom).... and ....(Name of bride)....

3. LEGAL CHARGE



MINISTER:

I require and charge you both that if you know of any just cause why you may not be legally married, you should, with all sincerity say so now, not forgetting that any two coupled together in contradiction to the Word of God are not joined together by God neither is such matrimony lawful.

MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

I solemnly declare/ that I do not know of any lawful impediment/ why I ....(Name of bridegroom)..../ may not be joined in matrimony to/(Name of bride)....



MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I solemnly declare/ that I do not know of any lawful impediment/ why I ....(Name of bride)..../ may not be joined in matrimony to/ ....{Name of bridegroom )....





4. "I DO" VOWS



MINISTER: (To Bridgegroom.)

.. ..(Name of bridegroom)...., do you, before God and

all these witnesses choose ... .(Name of bride)

as your wedded wife? And do you promise to love her as Christ loved the church and give yourself for her as long as you live?

BRIDEGROOM: I do

MINISTER: (To Bride.)

....(Name of bride)...., do you, before God and all these witnesses choose... . (Name of bridegroom).... as your wedded husband? And do you promise to submit yourself to him as unto the Lord and love him as long as you live?



BRIDE: I do



5. GIVING AWAY OF BRIDE



MINISTER:

Who gives the bride away into marriage to this man?



BRIDE'S FATHER: I do



6. EXCHANGE OF VOWS (instruct couple to face each other.)

MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

I, ....(Name of bridegroom)....,/ take yOU, ....(Name of

bride)... ./ to be my wedded wife; /to have and to hold/from this day forward./ To care for and to encourage,/ in prosperity and adversity./ I promise to live for Christ./ I promise to love and trust you forever./ And with this commitment,/1 pledge to you my life.



MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I, ....(Name of bride)..../ take yOU, ....(Name of bridegroom)... ./ to be my wedded husband;/ to have and to hold/from this day forward./ To care for and to encourage,/ in prosperity and adversity./1 promise to live for Christ./ I promise to love and trust you forever./ And with this commitment,/1 pledge to you my life.

7.INTRODUCTION TO RING SERVICE



MINISTER:

May I have the rings please.

These rings are symbols of your commitment of love.

They are made out of gold, expressing the purity that should always be in your marriage. You are going to exchange these rings in full awareness of the deep implications thereof.



8. PRAYER OVER RINGS



MINISTER:

Lord, we dedicate and sanctify these rings today. May they be symbols of true love and tokens of commitment between these two. Bless these rings now in the name of Jesus. Amen.



9. EXCHANGE OF RINGS (Present ring to Bridegroom.)

MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)



I give this ring/ as a visible token of my love./ I give it to you/ as a visible token/ of my permanent commitment/ and dedication to you./ From today I am yours/ and you are mine./ I love you with all my heart/ and I will always love you./ In the name of Jesus. Amen.

(Presents ring to Bride.)

MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I give this ring/ as a visible token of my love/ and I give it to you/ as my own life./ From today, I am yours/ and you are mine./ I love you with all my heart/and I will always love you./ In the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen.

10. BRIDE AND BRIDEGROOM KNEEL FOR PRAYER, AND LAYING ON OF HANDS



11.PRONOUNCEMENT OF MARRIAGE (Couple stands.)



MINISTER:

For as much as ....(Name of bridegroom)....,and ....(Name of bride).... have openly declared their intention to keep all the vows they have made to each other today, it is my privilege as a minister of the gospel and by the authority vested in me by the Lord Jesus Christ to pronounce from this day forward, that your marriage is blessed by the Lord and you are husband and wife before man and before God. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.



12.BRIDEGROOM SALUTES BRIDE(Ask the Bridegroom to kiss his Bride)



13. HYMNS (One of the two songs may be sung.)

i. - To God Be the Glory

ii. ~ Showers of Blessings



14.SIGNING OF REGISTER/ OFFERING



15.BIBLE READING (Optional)



16.SERMON



17.CHARGE AND BLESSING (Couple stands, witnesses sit.)



MINISTER:

I want to speak a word of blessing and exhortation to you, as you move on as husband and wife.

You shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, and you shall bring forth your fruit in its season.

Your leaves shall not whither, and whatsoever you do shall prosper, if you shall hearken unto the voice of the Lord. Be a husband and wife that walk not in the counsel of ungodly people.

He is your glory and He shall be the lifter of your head. At thy latter end the Lord shall enlarge thee and shall have mercy upon thee.

Though thy beginnings be small, thy latter end shall be greatly increased. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost.

Amen.

18.PRAYER OF BLESSING



19. HYMNS (One of the two songs may be sung)

i. ~ Great is Thy Faithfulness

ii.~ How Great Thou Art



20. PRESENTATION TO WITNESSES



MINISTER: (To Bride and Groom:)



Please turn and face the witnesses herein gathered.

(To Witnesses:)

Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you Mr. and Mrs.... .(Last name of bridegroom)....



21. COUPLE RECESS



MINISTER:

Shall we sing as they march out.

(One of the two songs may be sung)

i. ~ Great is Thy Faithfulness

ii. ~ How Great Thou Art





PREAMBLE TO BLESSING A MARRIAGE DURING THE ENGAGEMENT CEREMONY




The church does not recognize an engagement ceremony as marriage. We only consider the couple to be truly married after it has been blessed by the church and legally sealed.

A sound biblical policy is to encourage marriage and avoid fornication. This concept of blessing the couple at the engagement is in line with this policy of being flexible and encouraging biblical standards of holiness in our congregations.

We therefore conduct an engagement blessing when a couple wish to consider their engagement ceremony (customary marriage) as a full marriage. This is performed after the traditional ceremonies between the families are completed. It must be anointed but brief, bearing in mind that the families have just sat through a lengthy customary event.





BLESSING A MARRIAGE DURING THE ENGAGEMENT CEREMONY




1. ENGAGEMENT CEREMONY MINISTER: (Prays over ring prior to it being placed on woman's finger.)



2. OPENING PRAYER FOR BLESSING CEREMONY



3. HYMN/SONG

~ To God Be the Glory



4. REASON FOR OCCASION

We want, at this time, to acknowledge the Lord especially in this marriage being established today.

According to the Word of God, ....(Name of bridegroom).... and ....(Name of bride).... have given

tribute to whom tribute is due, custom to whom custom is due, and honour to whom honour is due.

We come at this time to acknowledge the hand of the Lord God Jehovah in all things. If the Lord doth not build the house we labour in vain. We therefore ask the Lord to build this house.



5. SCRIPTURE READING



6. SHORT SERMON/ EXHORTATION



7.EXCHANGE OF VOWS (Couple facing each other.)



MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

I ....(Name of bridegroom)—, /take you (Name of bride)..../ to be my cherished wife./ I promise you with all my heart/ to walk beside you/ in times of happiness/ and in times of great adversity./ I commit my love to you/ and I promise to be faithful to you/ and to you alone/ until Christ comes./ In the name of the Father,/ the Son,/ and the Holy Ghost. / Amen.





MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I ....(Name of bride)....,/ take you ....(Name of bridegroom)... ./to be my cherished husband./ I promise you with all my heart/to walk beside you/ in times of adversity/ and in times of great happiness./ I commit my love to you/ and I promise to be faithful to you/ and to you alone/ until Christ comes again./ In the name of the Father,/ the Son,/ and the Holy Ghost./ Amen.

8.PRAYER OF BLESSING (Couple kneel for prayer.)

The Lord bless thee, and keep thee: The Lord make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee: The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace. In the name of Jesus.



9.PRONOUNCEMENT OF MARRIAGE (Couple stands.)

Today, ....(Name of bridegroom).... and ....(Name of bride).... have fulfilled all customary requirements and have also submitted their marriage to the Blessing of the Lord. I stand as a Minister of the Lord Jesus Christ to pronounce that this marriage is indeed blessed and sanctified of the Lord. And what God has put together, let no man or woman put asunder. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.





10. SALUTATION OF BRIDE(Ask Bridegroom to kiss his Bride)



11. CLOSING HYMN / SONG (One of the two songs may be sung)

i. ~ To God Be the Glory

ii. ~ Showers of Blessing



12. CLOSING PRAYER





PREAMBLE TO RENEWAL OF VOWS




This ceremony is performed by couples who wish to celebrate a longstanding marriage which has passed through the tests of time. As ministers we are servants of the people. If they wish to engage in an elaborate anniversary celebration of what the Lord has done for them, it is only appropriate to flow along and support them. Minister to them and speak the blessings of the Lord upon them that they may continue in happiness for many more years.

The vows in this section have been specially formulated to suit such an occasion.





RENEWAL OF VOWS




1. HYMN 1 (Whilst Ministers file in and take their seats.)



2. BRIDAL MARCH

3. BRIEF TIME OF WORSHIP



4. INTRODUCTION (Whilst at altar, couple stands and congregation sits.)



MINISTER:

Dearly Beloved, we come to this house of worship to celebrate together the marriage

of Mr. & Mrs.... .(Last name of the bridegroom)....

Marriage is honourable and it is fitting and proper that this marriage ceremony be celebrated in the presence of God.

God sanctified marriage when He brought together the first man and the first woman.

The Lord Jesus hallowed the occasion of marriage by His presence in His first miracle which He wrought in Cana of Galilee.

The Word of God teaches and speaks of the honour, the correctness, the sanctity, the holiness, and the blessedness of marriage.

All these are the portion of Christians who come to the marriage altar desiring to have a blessed and happy marriage.

The nearest place to heaven in this world is a Christ centered home. The nearest place to hell on earth is a house where hatred, bitterness, and quarrels prevail.

Except the Lord build a home of love, peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost we know that we build in vain.

It is for this reason that these two persons come again to renew and affirm their love and commitment to this Holy estate of matrimony.

5."I DO" VOWS MINISTER: (To the Bridegroom.)

....(Name of bridegroom)...., do yOU Confirm your

unconditional love and commitment to ....(Name of bride)....! Do yOU promise tO continue living together after God's ordinance in the Holy estate of matrimony; will you encourage her, honour and keep her, and not allow any circumstance to affect your faithfulness to her, so long as you both shall live?

BRIDEGROOM: I do

MINISTER: (To the Bride.)

....(Name of bride) , do you confirm your

unconditional love, submission and commitment to ....(Name of bridegroom)....! Do you promise to continue living together after God's ordinance in the Holy estate of matrimony; will you encourage him, honour and keep him, and not allow any circumstance to affect your faithfulness to him, so long as you both shall live?



BRIDE: I do



6.DECLARATION OF WITNESS

MINISTER:

Who stands as a witness to this renewal of vows between the couple?

(Witness stands, comes forward to the microphone and says)

I.. ..(Name of father)...., confirm that I have freely and willingly given away my daughter in marriage with all my blessings.

OR

I ....(Name of witness)...., confirm that I have witnessed the renewal of marriage between Mr. and Mrs (Last name of the couple).... in the

House of God.

7.RENEWAL OF VOWS (Couple facing each other.)



MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

I, ....(Name of bridegroom)....,/having chosen yOU among all/ and having married you,/ this day renew my vows to you that;/1 will offer myself completely to you /as your wedded husband./I promise to love you with all my heart/ and to be faithful./ I promise to stand by you always,/ in times of joy,/ in times of trials/ and in times of sorrow./ I dedicate our marriage and our home/ to the Lordship of Jesus Christ./ I pledge myself /and all that I am/ to this eternal covenant./ So help me God.

MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

I, ....(Name of bride).../having chosenyou among all/and having married you,/this day renew my vows to you that;/ In response to your love for me,/1 will offer myself/ in the beauty of submission/ to you as your wife./1 also promise to love you/ with all my heart/ and to be faithful./

I promise to stand by you always,/ in times of joy,/ in times of trial/ and in times of sorrow./1 pledge myself/ and all that I am/ to this eternal covenant./ So help me God.

8. INTRODUCTION OF RING SERVICE



MINISTER:

These rings are very precious and special. Today, we renew their purpose. Let them remain forever as a symbol of your love and commitment towards each other. Shall we pray.

9. PRAYER OVER RINGS MINISTER:

Father, we ask you to redeem these rings once again with the blood of Jesus, and bless this couple with a fresh blessing that their love may be renewed as they wear them. Let them be a sign that these two shall by your grace keep their vows as long as they live. In Jesus' name.



10. EXCHANGE OF RINGS (Present ring to Bridegroom.)

MINISTER: (Bridegroom repeating after.)

(Mention first name of Bride 3 times)... .(Name of bride)....,/ this ring is an expression/ of all I have promised you./ I give it with all my love/ and life-long commitment./ In the name of the Father,/ the Son,/ and the Holy Spirit./ Amen.

(Present ring to Bride.)

MINISTER: (Bride repeating after.)

(Mention first name of Bridegroom 3 times). ...(Name of bridegroom)....,/ this ring is an expression/ of all I have promised you./ I give it with all my love/ and life-long commitment. /In the name of the Father,/the Son,/and the Holy Spirit. / Amen.

11. BRIDE AND BRIDEGROOM KNEEL FOR PRAYER, AND LAYING ON OF HANDS

12. PRONOUNCEMENT OF MARRIAGE (Couple stands.)



MINISTER:

For as much as Mr. & Mrs. ... .(Last name of bridegroom)...., have openly renewed their vows to God and to each other today, and have declared their intention to keep and maintain this marriage, it is my privilege as a minister of the gospel and by the authority vested in me by the Lord Jesus Christ to pronounce that you are husband and wife afresh, in the name of the Father, the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen.



13. SALUTATION OF BRIDE [Ask Bridegroom to salute (kiss) his Bride]

14. COMMUNION

The couple will now receive Communion together. This is to remind us all that it is because of what Christ has done for us that we are all here in the first place. The Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took bread, and when he had given thanks he brake it and said take, eat, this is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me.

After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, this cup is the new testament in my blood. This do ye, as oft as ye drink in remembrance of me. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, ye do show the Lord's death till he come. Let us pray.

(Bless the bread and the wine. Thank God for Jesus Christ's sacrifice.)



15. BIBLE READINGS



16. SERMON



17. CHARGE AND BLESSING (Couple stands, Congregation sits.)

MINISTER:

· Trust in the Lord and do good, and He shall cause you to be established in the land and He shall provide for you.

· Delight yourself in the Lord and He shall give you the desires of your heart. Commit your ways unto the Lord and trust him and He shall bring it to pass.

· I bring down the walls of opposition and resistance that are lifted up against your life and your peace. I reverse, I nullify, I cancel, and I reject every unscriptural prayer and death wish against your life.

· I resist the desire of the enemy to see your downfall. I superimpose the will of God over and against every setback, every limitation,and every disappointment of your life.

· May your lives be extended. May your days be prolonged. May the rest of your years together be sweeter and better then the ones that are passed. May the blessing of God replace every curse.

· May a new day dawn upon your horizon. And may the goodness and favour of the Lord shine upon you in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Amen.





18. PRAYER OF BLESSING



19.PRESENTATION TO CONGREGATION

MINISTER: (To Bride and Groom.) Please turn and face this congregation.

(To Congregation.)

Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you Mr. and Mrs.... .(Last name of bridegroom)

20. WEDDING MARCH





PREAMBLE TO WAKE-KEEPING SERVICE




Many families lay the body of the deceased in state at home for a period. This is an important and sorrowful occasion for all families. It is necessary that the pastor is present to introduce a spiritual and encouraging mood into a usually depressed atmosphere. The presence of a choir singing praises to God is a very helpful addition to the pastor's role.





WAKE-KEEPING SERVICE




1. MINISTER GOES INTO DESIGNATED ROOM WITH FAMILY TO PRAY OVER THE BODY



2. REASON FOR OCCASION (At the wake service.)

Dear brethren, the Word of God instructs us to rejoice with them that do rejoice and to mourn with them that mourn.

As a church, we are also a family and consider our late ....(Name of deceased).... not just as a member of our church but as our brother/sister/father/mother. We really feel the loss together.

But as it is written, all things work together for good to them that love the Lord. In all things we must give thanks, for this is the will of God.

Tonight we come here to mourn with you all and also to comfort ourselves through our fellowship with the Holy Spirit.

Shall we bow our heads in prayer.

3. OPENING PRAYER



4. PRAISE AND WORSHIP I



5. SINGING/FILING PAST THE BODY



6. EXHORTATION/PREACHING



7. ALTAR CALL



8. PRAISE AND WORSHIP II



9. ANNOUNCEMENTS



10. CLOSING PRAYER





PREAMBLE TO FUNERAL SERVICE




The Funeral Service may be held at the home of the deceased or in his church. However, some congregations meet in places which cannot be used as venues for funeral services. The pastor must therefore be flexible, and flow with whatever is appropriate.

The pastor must minister with a spirit of hope and encouragement. It is important to note that the family is already sad and depressed. There is therefore no need to deepen their sorrow any further.

However, it is an appropriate occasion to minister to people on the reality of heaven or hell and the need to be genuinely

'born again'. Every minister of God must use this opportunity to preach the Word of God to people who may otherwise never hear the Gospel. An altar call for salvation is most appropriate, and must be made at every funeral service.





FUNERAL SERVICE




1. CONGREGATION PAYS LAST RESPECT



2. OFFICIATING MINISTERS ENTER,FILE PAST THE CORPSE AND TAKE THEIR SEATS



3.COFFIN IS CLOSED PERMANENTLY



4.CONGREGATION STANDS



5. HYMN I



Lead us heavenly Father lead us

Lead us heavenly Father lead us

O'er the world's tempestuous sea

Guard us, guide us, keep us, feed us

For we have no help but Thee,

Yet possessing every blessing

If our God our Father be

Saviour breathe forgiveness O'er us

All our weakness Thou dost know

Thou didst tread this earth before us

Thou didst feel its keenest woe

Lone and dreary, faint and weary

Through the desert Thou didst go

Spirit of our God descending

Fill our hearts with heavenly joy

Love with every passion blending

Pleasure that can never cloy

Thus provided, pardoned, guided

Nothing can our peace destroy.

6.INVOCATION/OPENING PRAYER



7.SCRIPTURE READING I (Revelation 14:12,13)



8.SCRIPTURE READING II (Revelation 20:11-15)



9. HYMN II

WHEN I SURVEY

When I survey the wondrous Cross

On which the Prince of Glory died

My richest gain I count but loss

And pour contempt on all my pride

Forbid it Lord that I should boast

Save in the death of Christ my God

All the vain things that charm me most

I sacrifice them to His blood

See, from His head, His hands,

His feet, Sorrow and love flow mingled down

Did e 'er such love and sorrow meet

Or thorns compose so rich a crown ?

Were the whole realm of nature mine

That were an offering far too small

Love so amazing, so divine

Demands my soul, my life, my all.

10.BIOGRAPHY

11.TRIBUTES I-III

12.SONG I (By choir.)

13.OFFERTORY FOR FAMILY – SONG II (By choir.)

14.SERMON

15. ALTAR CALL/CLOSING PRAYER

16. CLOSING HYMN III



NOW THANK WE ALL OUR GOD



Now thank we all our God

With hearts and hands and voices

Who wondrous things hath done

In whom this world rejoices

Who from our mothers' arms

Hath blessed us on our way

With countless gifts of love

And still is ours today.



All praise and thanks to God

The Father now be given

The Son and Him who reigns

With them in highest heaven

The one eternal God

Whom heaven and earth adore

For thus it was is now

And shall be evermore. Amen.

17. THE BENEDICTION





BURIAL SERVICE


1. PROCESSION INTO CEMETERY

(Led by choir, then the coffin, officiating ministers, and all others in that order.)

2.COFFIN PLACED ON SIDE OF THE GRAVE

3. MINISTER TAKES HIS PLACE AT HEAD OF THE GRAVE

4.OPENING PRAYER

5.OPENING HYMN





BECAUSE HE LIVES



Because He Lives

I can face tomorrow!

Because He lives

All fear is gone

And now I know He holds the future

And life is worth the living

Just because He lives.



God sent His Son

They called Him Jesus;

He came to love, heal and forgive,

He lived and died to buy my pardon,

An empty grave is there to prove my Savior lives.

6. MINISTER INSTRUCTS THAT COFFIN

BE LOWERED INTO THE GRAVE

7. SCRIPTURE READING

(Assisting Minister)

Revelation 21:3-7-

And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God. And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away. And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful. And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely.

He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.

8.HYMN II



WHEN PEACE LIKE A RIVER

When peace like a river

Attendeth my way,

When sorrows like sea-billows roll-

Whatever my lot

Thou has taught me to say,

"It is well, it is well, with my soul."



It is well (echo)

With my soul,(echo)

It is well, it is well with my soul.

9. PRAYER OF COMMITTAL

LET US PRAY.

(Alternatively, you may pray inspirat- ionally as led by the Spirit of God.)

Heavenly Father, we come at this time to commit the body and the mortal remains of our brother/sister to the ground.

We take comfort in your scripture which says "for the Lord Himself will come down from heaven, with a loud command, with the voice of the archangel and with the trumpet call of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first."

After that, we who are still alive and are left will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will be with the Lord for ever. We therefore encourage ourselves with these words.

As we commit this body into the ground we know that this is not a hopeless situation. We do it with HOPE and with faith in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

10. COMMITTAL (Minister takes shovel with soil in hand and says:)



· We look for the resurrection in the last day, and the appearing of the Lord Jesus, at whose second coming He shall judge the world.

· When the earth and sea shall give up the dead. And when the dead in Christ shall rise first. Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds.

· And then shall come to pass the saying that is written:

Death is swallowed up in victory,

O' death, where is thy sting

O' grave, where is thy victory.

· For as much as the spirit of our

deceased brother ... .(Name of deceased)….,

has returned to God who gave it, we

therefore commit the body of ... .(Name

of deceased)... to the ground and to the

dust.

· From earth to earth. (While sprinkling dust.)

· From dust to dust. (While sprinkling dust.)

· From ashes to ashes. (While sprinkling dust)

· In the name of the Father, Son and Holy Ghost. Amen.

11. FINAL PRAYER



12. HYMN II/CHORUS

~ It is Well

~ Ebenezer

13. INVITATION OF FAMILY TO SPRINKLE DUST SYMBOLIC ATA

(Now invite three members of the family to sprinkle dust.)

14. PRESENTATION OF WREATHS

(Assisting Minister hands wreaths to Officiating Minister to read out the names.)



15. VOTE OF THANKS

(By a member of the family.)

16. CLOSING HYMN & SONG





LEAD KINDLY LIGHT



Lead, kindly Light,

Amid the encircling gloom

Lead thou me on;

The night is dark,

And I am far from home,

Lead thou me on.

Keep thou my feet; I do not ask to see The distant scene; One step enough for me.



I was not e-

ver thus, nor prayed that Thou

Shouldst lead me on;

I loved to choose

And see my path but now

Lead thou me on.

I loved the garish day and spite of fears

Pride ruled my will Remember not past years.



So long Thy power Hath blest me; sure it still Will lead me on,

O 'er moor and fen,

0 'er crag and torrent, till

The night is gone;



And with the morn those angel faces smile,

Which I have loved

Long since, and lost awhile.



FOREVER O LORD



Forever, O Lord

Forever, O Lord

Thy Word is settled

It's settled in heaven.

17. CLOSING PRAYER AND THE GRACE





PREAMBLE TO MEMORIAL & THANKSGIVING SERVICE


This is usually held after the funeral and burial services. It is a good occasion to let the bereaved family feel important and loved. As they are acknowledged publicly at the church service, a sense of brotherhood and belonging is established. The family will never forget the attitude and commitment with which the ministers conducted themselves at the funeral of the relative. Allowing a member of the family to publicly address the church in a vote of thanks is a significant part of the ceremony which must not be omitted.

Praying for the family is also important. This ceremony can be interjected into a normal service without prolonging it unduly. It must be apt but brief.





MEMORIAL & THANKSGIVING SERVICE


1. INTRODUCTION

Dearly beloved, we would like at this time to perform the Memorial and Thanksgiving Service of our belated brother ....(Name of deceased) whose sad event occurred at

....(Name of location).... On ....(The date of death).... The

family is here with us today to thank God for His goodness and mercies and for seeing our brother through his lifetime.

Could the family please stand.

2. WORDS OF ENCOURAGEMENT TO THE FAMILY

· Our brother is with the Lord which is a better place.

2 Corinthians 5:8~

· We are confident, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body, and to be present with the Lord.

· The Holy Spirit Himself will comfort you since He is the Comforter.

· The Lord is the Father of the fatherless and the Husband of the widows and the Friend that sticketh closer than a brother.



3. PRAYER SAID FOR FAMILY

Father, we thank you that your scripture is fulfilled today. This is the day that the Lord has made and we give thanks in it. We pray for the family that you would comfort them and bless them.

We bring down every satanic projection and prediction against their lives, in Jesus' name.

We cancel, reverse and nullify every setback, limitation, disappointment, and frustration in their lives. We uproot every fear of the unknown and fear of death in their lives.

We cancel every assignment and claim and demand made against their very lives. In the name of Jesus.

We release them to serve the Lord with assurance that all things work together for good to them that love the Lord. Amen.

4. VOTE OF THANKS

(A pre-informed member of family is called up to give a vote of thanks and any relevant announcement.

This must be very brief.)





