Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.

			Those who are Mad

			and they were filled with madness…Luke 6:11

			Copyright © 2023 Dag Heward-Mills

			First published 2024 by Parchment House

			77Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills at:

			Healing Jesus Campaign

			Email: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

			Website: www.daghewardmills.org

			Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

			Twitter: @EvangelistDag

			ISBN: 979-8-89606-244-8

			All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Contents



1. Those Who Are Mad: A Warning from History

2. Those Who Are Mad: A Warning from the Dictionary

3. Those Who Are Mad: A Warning from the Bible

4. Facts about Mental Illness

5. Understanding Schizophrenia

6. Stages of Disloyalty: Schizophrenia

7. The Madman of Gadara: Schizophrenia

8. Understanding Dementia

9. Those Who Forget: Dementia

10. Understanding Bipolar Disorder

11. King Saul: Bipolar Disorder

12. Understanding Borderline Personality Disorder

13. Absalom: Borderline Personality Disorder

14. Lucifer: Delusional Disorder

15. Understanding Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

16. Those Who Are Offended: Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

17. Understanding Personality Disorders

18. Understanding Multiple Personality Disorder

19. Those Who Pretend: Multiple Personality Disorder

20. Those Who Are Proud: Contentious Personalities

21. Understanding Depression

22. Those Who Are Depressed

23. Disloyalty and Madness Chart





A king who is loyal and true will keep his power. Loyalty will keep his kingdom strong.

			Proverbs 20:28 (ERV)





CHAPTER 1




Those Who Are Mad: A Warning from History




			And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus.

			Luke 6:11

			11.	2The Age of Enlightenment: Madness from the time of enlightenment has been defined as “A loss of reason; without reason, the appetites and passions will be released in their full fury. And reason is, of course, the greatest benefit conferred on us all by civilization. Without reason, we are no different from other animals.”

			2.	3Scull on madness: Scull suggests that madness might be better thought of as arising, not from a loss of reason but from a loss of common sense. The important aspect of common sense is that it is shared between people.

			3.	Psychosis; Psychosis is often described as a loss of contact with reality. The ideas expressed by a patient are beyond the understanding of others. The patient has no insight into the abnormality of his or her ideas from the perspective of others. And the patient is impervious to the opinions of others.

			4.	4Andrew Snape on madness: Andrew Snape described “Those unhappy people who are bereft of the dearest light, the light of reason and create a destruction that divests the rational soul of all its noble and distinguishing endowments.”

			5.	King George III: He was mentally unfit to rule in the last decade of his reign; King George III suffered from mental illness at a time in history when it was believed that madness reduced people to the level of beasts. It was believed that they should be managed by the techniques developed for training animals. This meant domination through the judicious combination of rewards and punishment. Such treatment was largely confined to the poor and uneducated classes. However, George III was an exception. The king was frequently beaten and starved, and at best was kept in submission by menacing and violent language. Mercy!

			6.	Hippocrates on madness: Is madness a spiritual, mental or physical disease of the brain? Hippocrates wrote, “It appears to me to be no wise, more divine, than any other disease, but has a natural cause.”

			7.	5Felix Platter (who taught medicine in Basel) said, “Melancholia could be ‘natural, a certain effect so affecting the brain, the seat of reason’ and also preternatural proceeding from an evil spirit.”

			8.	6Robert Burton enjoins sufferers to “first begin with prayer then use physick.”

			9.	Abandoned treatments: Unfortunately, across the centuries, many weird and cruel treatments have been applied to people with mental health issues such as drilling holes in the skull, domination and incarceration, infecting them with malaria, removal of teeth, removal of the stomach, insulin coma therapy, removal of prefrontal leucotomy and electric shocks.

			10.	Brain staining and brain imaging have discovered clear abnormalities in the brain in many mental disorders. For example, the presence of “plaques” and “tangles” in many cases of dementia was reported by Alzheimer in 1907.

			11.	Drugs for mental health: The unexpected discovery of antipsychotic and antidepressant drugs in the 1950s reduced the severity of mental symptoms in many people. Drugs for psychiatric conditions have been frequently over-prescribed and these drugs have had unfortunate and distressing side effects. This unfortunate use of antipsychotic drugs has led to many pharmaceutical companies abandoning research on the disorders of the central nervous system.1

			1-1 : See References





CHAPTER 2




Those Who Are Mad: A Warning from the Dictionary




			And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus.

			Luke 6:11

			Madness has many interesting definitions in the dictionary.

			1. Madness is defined as having a mind that does not work in a normal way, resulting in very strange behaviour. Therefore, those who are mad could be described as those who have a mind that does not work in a normal way such that their behaviour is very strange.

			2.	Madness: Used to describe something that relates to, is characterized by, or derives from serious mental illness. Therefore, those who are mad could be described as those who have some serious mental illness.

			3.	Madness speaks of someone who is deranged and not of a sound mind. Therefore, those who are mad could be described as those who are deranged and not of a sound mind.

			4.	Madness speaks of very stupid behaviour that could be dangerous. Therefore, those who are mad could be described as those who engage in very stupid behaviour.

			5.	Madness is a state of mind which prevents normal perception, behaviour or social interaction. Therefore, those who are mad could be described as those whose minds work in such a way that they do not have a normal perception and understanding of things and are somehow prevented from having normal behaviour and normal social interaction.

			6.	Mad: Someone who is extremely foolish or unwise; imprudent; irrational. Therefore, those who are mad could be described as those who are extremely foolish, extremely unwise, extremely irrational and extremely imprudent.

			7.	Mad: Someone who is emotionally overwhelmed; consumed by mood or feelings. Therefore, those who are mad could be described as those who may be emotionally overwhelmed and consumed by their moods and feelings.





CHAPTER 3




Those Who Are Mad: A Warning from the Bible




			The Lord shall smite thee with madness, and blindness, and astonishment of heart:

			Deuteronomy 28:28

			The Bible has many things to say about madness. In this chapter, let us see exactly what the Word of God tells us about madness.

			1.	According to the Bible, madness is a condition that is found in the human race.

			This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, that there is one event unto all: yea, also THE HEART OF THE SONS OF MEN IS FULL OF EVIL, AND MADNESS IS IN THEIR HEART while they live, and after that they go to the dead.

			Ecclesiastes 9:3

			Just as evil is found in the whole world, madness is also evenly distributed across the planet. There is no country and there is no group of people that does not have issues with madness or mental health. All across the world, the hearts of the sons of men are not only full of evil but equally of madness.

			2.	According to the Bible, madness is pronounced on men as a curse from God.

			The Lord shall smite thee with madness, and blindness, and astonishment of heart:

			Deuteronomy 28:28

			In the book of Deuteronomy, madness is found in the list where Moses describes several curses of defeat, failure, humiliation, frustration, sickness and disease. Madness was inflicted on the people of Israel by the curse of Moses. This was no small curse. Madness is very difficult to cure, even with modern drugs. Unfortunately, many of the modern drugs have distressing side effects which lead to other mental conditions.

			3.	According to the Bible, madness is something we must study and learn about so that we can relate with it and handle it properly. Madness must be studied and greatly analysed.

			And I gave my heart to know wisdom, AND TO KNOW MADNESS and folly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit.

			Ecclesiastes 1:17

			Failure to understand mental health and its ramifications will cause us to misunderstand unusual, unexpected and antisocial behaviour. It will cause us to mistreat people who rather need counselling, medication or other forms of help.

			I remember a brother whose wife was behaving very badly. He finally decided to divorce her. As he was preparing to divorce her, she lunged out at him and attacked him physically. He was shocked and that was when it occurred to him that his wife was probably mentally ill. Indeed, it turned out that she was mentally ill. The brother put aside the divorce and helped his wife go through several years of treatment for her condition. It happened that this brother was a medical doctor and knew something about medical health. That is why it occurred to him that his wife could have had a mental health challenge.

			In this book, we want to study about different kinds of madness and how they relate to us in the ministry and in the church. This is not a book for medical students. It is a book that a lay person can appreciate and understand how mental health issues relate to the church and to the ministry. You will discover that many mental illnesses are being manifested in your leadership team. Mental health issues are rampant in the church. Often, these conditions go undetected and undiagnosed. As we begin to make the diagnoses of “those who are mad” it will allow for greater understanding and a greater victory over the wickedness of satan.

			4.	According to the Bible, people in the ministry do go mad. The best example is the prophet Balaam.

			But was rebuked for his iniquity: the dumb ass speaking with man’s voice forbad THE MADNESS OF THE PROPHET.

			2 Peter 2:16

			According to the Word of God, a prophet can also go mad. If a prophet can go mad, then an apostle, a pastor, a bishop, an evangelist or a teacher can also go mad. What is madness? One of the definitions of a mad person is someone who is extremely foolish, unwise, imprudent or irrational.

			There are bishops and pastors who are extremely foolish, unwise and irrational. Madness has gripped their souls! A Mad person could also be defined as someone who is emotionally overwhelmed or consumed by mood or feelings. Sometimes, when people experience emotional trauma, they are consumed by their mood and feelings and then they go mad.

			Indeed, from my experience in the ministry, many pastors and prophets are emotionally overwhelmed and act foolishly, unwisely and irrationally. It is this foolish, unwise, irrational and anti-social behaviour of pastors or bishops who have hitherto been normal, that is troubling. Perhaps, being able to make a diagnosis of madness will help Christians to have a greater understanding and capacity to love seemingly errant and deviant brothers and sisters. A diagnosis of madness often invokes compassion in a person who has understanding.

			5.	According to the Bible, the opposers of Moses were considered mad men.

			History has given us an example of this with the Egyptian sorcerers Jannes and Jambres, who stood against Moses in their arrogance. So it will be in the last days with those who reject the faith with their corrupt minds and arrogant hearts, standing against the truth of God. But they will not advance, FOR EVERYONE WILL SEE THEIR MADNESS, just as they did with Jannes and Jambres!

			2 Timothy 3:8-9 (TPT)

			The Egyptian sorcerers, Jannes and Jambres, fought against Moses in their arrogance. Pride often makes you behave irrationally and out of character. Jannes and Jambres rose up against a great anointing, fighting and challenging it. This was not a wise move! It will never be a wise move to stand up against a great prophet and apostle whom God has raised up. And yet, there are people who have made it their jobs to fight God’s holy prophets and servants. Today, just like Jannes and Jambres, there are ministers of the gospel who have gone completely mad.

			It is amazing that people do not learn from history nor from the Bible. Madness is not something that has been eradicated from the earth. Madness still occurs today.

			Just as Jannes and Jambres fought against Moses, there are modern day Jannes’ and Jambres’ who are equally mad and determined to fight against the great gifts and anointings on earth.

			There are modern day Jannes’ and Jambres’ whose demon-glazed eyes look at God’s servants with hatred and malice, wishing to do them harm. The gleaming, jaundiced eyes of these jealous and hateful merchants of slander, stare helplessly at God’s servants as God’s servants move from victory to victory and from grace to grace.

			These hateful people are mad people! They are mad because the Bible calls them mad. Everyone will see their madness as time goes by!

			6.	According to the Bible, there is such a thing as wicked madness.

			The words of a wise man’s mouth are gracious and win him favor, but the lips of a fool consume him; the beginning of his talking is foolishness and THE END OF HIS TALK IS WICKED MADNESS.

			Ecclesiastes 10:12-13 (AMP)

			Mad behaviour is often a manifestation of wickedness. This is why human beings have historically reacted against mentally ill patients and administered all kinds of brutal treatment to them.

			I remember when a nurse at the mental hospital told me about how a mentally ill patient had attacked another mentally ill patient and plucked his eyes out. I could not believe the story but it happened.

			Why did the mad patient pluck out the eyes of a fellow patient? Why did he not just scratch the skin of his fellow patient? This is why madness is sometimes called “wicked madness” in the Bible.

			There are people in the church who act foolishly, irrationally and unreasonably against the leadership of the church. It is as though they are no longer reasoning or thinking rationally. This is why mental illness has often been defined as a loss of reason.

			People who leave churches have been known to attack and destroy the church they once helped to build. Wickedness combines with madness to become wicked madness and these people wreak havoc in the church, spreading slander, hatred, contention and strife everywhere and to everyone. Sometimes, it is as though they have gone completely mad!

			It is only wicked madness that will cause someone to attack his own church; a place which has been his home for the past twenty years in order to destroy his former church, to destroy his former place of employment, to destroy his former employer, to destroy his spiritual father, to destroy his mentor, to destroy his relationships, to destroy his friends, to destroy his marriage and to destroy his home. Only a mad man takes a firebrand and goes around burning down houses indiscriminately. This is wicked madness!

			7.	According to the Bible, there is such a thing as mischievous madness.

			The words of a wise man’s mouth are gracious; but THE LIPS OF A FOOL will swallow up himself. The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and THE END OF HIS TALK IS MISCHIEVOUS MADNESS.

			Ecclesiastes 10:12-13

			Many of the people who hate you are filled with foolishness and madness. The lips of a fool can produce mischievous madness. Mischief is behaviour that is intended to cause trouble for people. People who aim to cause trouble for you are filled with mischievous madness. Indeed, foolishness and madness are related. They are related because the outcome of pure mischief is similar to the outcome of pure madness. Mischief causes trouble for people and madness equally does the same.

			Do you know anyone who suffers from mischievous madness? Mischievous madness is a double portion of craziness, foolishness, irrationality and nonsense! There are pastors, bishops and reverends who suffer from a double portion of mischievous madness.

			Some pastors can fall into a double portion of craziness, foolishness, irrationality and nonsense! Indeed, some people are walking examples of mischievous madness! These are men of mischief with an intention to harm or destroy what they once loved. Watch out for every fool whose lips are producing mischievous madness! Men with mischievous madness are those with a double portion of craziness.

			8.	According to the Bible, religious men and priests go mad sometimes.

			AND THE SCRIBES AND PHARISEES WATCHED HIM, whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him.

			But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose and stood forth.

			Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it?

			And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.

			AND THEY WERE FILLED WITH MADNESS; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus.

			Luke 6:7-11

			Some people who interacted with Jesus were filled with madness. It happened to Jesus and it will happen to you too. The jealousies and the accusations of those who hate you has made them into mad men. There are many people who watch you on social media and are filled with madness.

			There are pastors, reverends and bishops who have gone completely mad. This is exactly what happened in the time of Jesus. The madness of the priests and the religious people made them blind to the good things that Jesus had done. The madness of your haters will make them blind to the good things that you are doing. On this particular occasion, Jesus healed a man with a withered hand. The religious people were standing by, ready to accuse Jesus. This shows you that many people who are filled with accusations are actually filled with madness.

			Madness is what motivates some people to accuse you endlessly. The madness blinds them to every good thing that is being done or that has been done. The madness made the priests and the Pharisees act irrationally, foolishly and without reason.

			Remember that madness is defined as “a loss of reason”. Many people who persecute you are filled with “a loss of reason.” How could people be angry that someone had been healed of an incurable, debilitating and crippling illness? What kind of irrational, mischievous, wicked, deranged thoughts were giving rise to this abnormal behaviour in the priests and Pharisees?

			It is this same madness that caused the Pharisees to be blind to all the good preaching, teaching and healing that Jesus had performed over the past three years, and then crucify Him out of their madness.

			Their jealousies and their accusations made them into mad men and they ended up crucifying the innocent and only son of God. That is profound madness manifesting itself in an ultimate way! Beware of mischievous madness! Beware of wicked madness! People’s jealousies and accusations make them into mad men.

			9.	According to the Bible, leaders can be smitten with madness.

			In that day, saith the LORD, I WILL SMITE EVERY HORSE WITH ASTONISHMENT, AND HIS RIDER WITH MADNESS: and I will open mine eyes upon the house of Judah, and will smite every horse of the people with blindness.

			Zechariah 12:4

			Do not allow yourself to be smitten with madness. Do not follow anyone who is smitten with madness. Be aware that some people are smitten with madness!

			The rider of a horse is the leader of the horse because he guides the horse as to where it should go. Riders and leaders can be smitten with madness. In the scripture above we see how a rider can be smitten with madness.

			The Hebrew word for madness is schiggaon, which means craziness. When the rider of a horse is smitten with craziness, you cannot expect a good outcome. There will be irrational, unreasonable, unexpected and indecent behaviour.

			Pastors with schiggaon

			Pastors who are struck with schiggaon are without the faculty of reason. Leaders and riders of horses who are struck with schiggaon are deprived of normal mental clarity. A person with normal mental clarity or sound judgment will not do certain things or say certain things. How many bishops have done things, which are contradictory, inconsistent, unsound and unreasonable? It is a pity to see breakaway pastors and rebellious leaders take decisions that are clearly illogical and irrational!

			Just ask yourself a question: if you saw a man spend a whole week arranging blocks into a pattern, and then spend the next week dismantling the blocks he had carefully arranged; and then spend the week after re-arranging the blocks into that special pattern, and then spend the following week dismantling the blocks from the well-laid out pattern, would you not conclude that there was something wrong with this man?

			This is what many leaders and pastors do. They spend fifteen years of their lives building a church through preaching, teaching and sacrificing their lives and then they spend the next few years of their lives dismantling it. No one can advise or speak reason to these mad men of ill-will, hatred and malice who are only bent on dismantling the blocks they have just finished laying. Even a ten year-old would conclude that such a person was not normal. Watch out for madness! Watch out for pastors with schiggaon! Watch out for bishops who have gone mad and lost all faculties of reason!

			10.	According to the Bible, you can be healed of anxiety!

			Be anxious for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God.

			Philippians 4:6 (NKJV)

			Be healed of anxiety! Anxiety is one of the main mental conditions in the world. Most of us have suffered from bouts of anxiety before. Anxiety involves repeated episodes of fear and terror, which do not go away easily. Anxiety disorders are more than temporary worry or fear. Indeed, many people are plagued by fears and anxiety.

			In the Word of God, we see a great solution to our panic, our fear of tomorrow and our fear of the unknown. In everything, through prayer and supplication, we can make our requests known to God. We can run away from our anxieties by running to prayer. Prayer is the spiritual antidote to fear. There are many things to fear in our world today. Though the nervousness, the unease, the severe fear and worry are often justified, they are not good things for our lives.

			People have become rebellious, irrational, foolish and treacherous because they were anxious about their future. If they had been able to quell their fears and anxieties, they would have weathered the storm and would have been delivered from the madness and its deadly effects.

			Dear reader, may you not be a rider smitten with anxiety, craziness, foolishness and insanity!





CHAPTER 4




Facts about Mental Illness




			This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, that there is one event unto all: yea, also THE HEART OF THE SONS OF MEN IS FULL OF EVIL, AND MADNESS IS IN THEIR HEART while they live, and after that they go to the dead.

			Ecclesiastes 9:3

			1.	Understanding mental illness will help a minister of the gospel relate with abnormal patterns that are often ascribed to demonic presence, satanic presence or other things like treachery and disloyalty.

			2.	Mental illnesses can create abnormalities in the way you think, feel, or behave.

			3.	7Mental illnesses can affect people of any age, race, religion, or income level. A mental illness is a medical condition that disrupts a person’s thinking, feeling, mood and ability to relate to others and their daily functioning.7

			4.	Many factors (such as trauma or a history of abuse), biological factors, life’s experiences and family history of mental illness cause mental health conditions.

			5.	Abnormal mental behaviour can affect working and personal relationships and can create unsafe living environments.

			6.	8970 million people around the world struggle with some mental illness or drug abuse.

			7.	1 in 4 people will be affected by a mental illness at some point in their lives.

			8.	14.3% of deaths worldwide are attributable to mental health problems.8

			9.	98 million deaths that occur in the world each year are attributable to mental disorders.9

			10.	Depression is the leading cause of disability worldwide.

			11.	There are some top mental illnesses every minister should know about because they will affect pastors, ministers, pastors’ wives and congregations alike. They are:

			1.	Schizophrenia

			2.	Bipolar Disorder

			3.	Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

			4.	Anxiety

			5.	Depression

			6.	Antisocial Personality Disorder

			7.	Borderline Personality Disorder

			8.	Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder

			9.	Dementia

			10.	High Conflict Personalities





CHAPTER 5




Understanding Schizophrenia




			Schizophrenia is a Serious Mental Illness

			You can diagnose Schizophrenia if you recognize some of these five major symptoms of schizophrenia. The five major symptoms of schizophrenia are easy to remember.

			Five Symptoms of Schizophrenia

			1.	Delusions

			2.	Hallucinations

			3.	Disorganized thinking or speech

			4.	Disorganized behaviour

			5.	Negative Symptoms

			SYMPTOM No. 1: DELUSIONS

			And for this cause GOD SHALL SEND THEM STRONG DELUSION, that they should believe a lie: THAT THEY ALL MIGHT BE DAMNED who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.

			2 Thessalonians 2:11-12

			A delusion is a belief that someone has, in spite of whatever contrary evidence is shown! The Bible warns us about the danger of delusions. Indeed, the scripture reveals that delusions are a prelude and precursor to damnation and destruction.

			A delusion is a fixed and false belief that is resistant to reason! There are people who have beliefs that are resistant to reason.

			A delusion is a fixed and false belief that is resistant to confrontation with actual fact! Many rebellious people have fixed and false beliefs that are resistant to confrontation with actual fact.

			Most disloyal people are resistant to truth and facts. They prefer to hold on to their deceptions and delusions until they perish completely. This is why delusions are seen as a cardinal symptom of madness.

			A delusion is a mistaken or an unfounded opinion that is resistant to reason! A delusion is an erroneous belief that a person holds onto in the face of contrary evidence!

			You can see from the definitions of a delusion that it is a highly dangerous thing to have. There must be some form of madness that causes a person to hold steadfastly onto a deception. There must be some form of mental derangement that causes one to surrender completely to a false belief. There must be some form of madness that makes a man accept wholeheartedly an illusion and a deception as the truth! Delusions come in many forms.

			Types of Delusions

			Delusions of Persecution:

			When people have delusions of persecution, the affected person believes he is being followed, spied upon, conspired against, poisoned or harassed by an individual or an organisation.

			This is the most common form of delusion. As a result of these delusions, a patient may attack those he feels are harassing him. For example a patient may think that all the other students in the class are conspiring against him and planning evil against him, or a patient may think that his neighbour entered his house while he was asleep to put poison into his soup.

			Delusions of Jealousy:

			Delusions of jealousy occur when a person fears that his spouse is being unfaithful. There are bizarre and non-bizarre delusions.

			Delusions of jealousy are often non-bizarre delusions. Delusions can cause severe damage to a relationship. Unfounded suspicions of unfaithfulness often strike fatal blows to love relationships. Few relationships are able to recover from unfounded accusations and delusions of jealousy.

			A sufferer of such delusions may go to great lengths to find evidence of their partners’ alleged affairs. They may even hire a detective to find this evidence. Delusions go before damnations!

			Delusions are often followed by damnation, and delusions of jealousy will always lead to the damning of a relationship. Such delusions of jealousy are sometimes called pathological jealousy. In other words, jealousy leads to the death of relationships! This is why jealousy is dangerous.

			Anger is cruel, and wrath is like a flood, but JEALOUSY IS EVEN MORE DANGEROUS.

			Proverbs 27:4 (NLT)

			Delusions of a Somatic Disorder:

			In this kind of delusion, a person is convinced that there is something wrong with them. This type of delusion may lead to many visits to a clinic or hospital. There will be several consultations with several specialists and physicians. Such a person may even undergo a surgical procedure about an unreal condition which he believes is real. Such people can have depression and even suicidal tendencies.

			I remember a patient who believed that she had a fish bone stuck deep in her throat. Nothing could convince her that she did not have the fish bone in her throat. Several consultations and examinations were performed but this lady believed that the fish bone was stuck deeply in her throat. The ENT surgeon realised that the lady was suffering from a delusion of a somatic disorder. He scheduled a surgery for the lady and took her to the theatre. The anaesthetist put her to sleep and then allowed her to wake up. When she woke up, the surgeon showed her a large fish bone and told her that he had removed it from her throat. The lady was elated. She said, “I told you. I knew I was right all along. There was a fish bone stuck in my throat.”

			It took a fake surgery to set this lady free from her somatic delusions. I have seen people obsessed with consultations, examinations, lab tests, x-rays, MRIs and so on. I have seen people even lose their jobs because they believed they had an illness they did not have. These people insisted on going for countless and endless check-ups and investigations.

			Induced Delusions; Folie à Deux:

			This is a form of delusion where two people who are usually in a close relationship, share the same delusions of grandeur or persecution. One person’s delusion is amazingly transmitted to the partner or friend.

			One of the partners may be the dominant personality who influences the weaker personality into adopting the delusion. The madness mainly affects the dominant person, and the other rapidly recovers from the delusions once they are separated from each other.

			It is amazing how people can form groups based on a wrong belief or delusion. This shared delusion becomes the basis for the destruction of the entire group. After a while, members of the group may come to realise that they have been fed with a deception.

			It is amazing that in mental health, a delusion which is a medical symptom in one mentally ill patient can be transmitted from one person to a perfectly normal person.

			If people are causing divisions among you, give a first and second warning. AFTER THAT, HAVE NOTHING MORE TO DO WITH THEM. For people like that have turned away from the truth, and their own sins condemn them.

			Titus 3:10-11 (NLT)

			It is important you ensure that someone’s madness is not transmitted to you. Have nothing more to do with them. Associations with evil, treacherous and disloyal people are not neutral encounters.

			You may receive an impartation of someone’s madness if you do not take care. You could easily imbibe the delusions and wickedness of a person you interact deeply with. We are learning here that you can actually receive a transmission of the mental health symptom that someone else has.

			Delusions of Grandeur:

			In this form of delusion, the person believes he is much greater or more influential than he really is. For example, he may be convinced he has an exceptional talent, extravagant riches or a special relationship with a prominent person. A delusion of grandeur is a belief that you are a very important and powerful person. A delusion of grandeur occurs when a person believes that he is a famous person such as a member of the royal family, or perhaps a god, or a superhero with special powers.

			Some patients believe they are God, some patients believe they are the king of England, some patients believe they are a president’s son, some patients believe they are a famous rock star, and so on. Others think they are skilled athletes or great inventors.

			Some people with delusions of grandeur have confabulations. . A confabulation is the replacement of a gap in a person’s memory by a falsification that he or she believes to be true. For example, a patient who believes they are royalty can give a thorough description of his coronation or her marriage to the king.

			Delusions of Reference:

			Delusions of reference occur when someone believes that another person is referring to him, when they are not.

			The belief that something or someone is referring to you when they are not, is a delusion of reference. For instance, a person may believe something he read in the newspaper refers to him. He may also believe that something he saw on television was referring to his thoughts. A person with delusions of reference may think that an actor talking in a movie is sending him a personal message through the screen. A pastor with delusions of reference may think that someone who is pronouncing a curse is referring to him. Unfortunately, these are all symptoms of madness!

			Paranoid Delusions:

			Paranoid delusions reflect fears and anxiety that people have. People with paranoid delusions think and feel that they are being threatened.

			Common paranoid delusions may include delusions about co-workers, delusions about spouses, delusions about the government, delusions about their neighbours plotting to hurt them.

			A person with paranoid delusions may believe someone is having an affair with her spouse. A person with paranoid delusions may believe that someone is threatening to kill him, someone is spying on him, someone is trying to poison him, someone is trying to cheat him, or trying to make his life miserable.

			Paranoid delusions have a severe impact on relationships and friendships. Many good relationships are destroyed by paranoid delusions.

			People with paranoid delusions may board up their home, black out their windows, put objects in front of their doors to block the entry to their house. They may even stay up late at night, hoping to catch imaginary culprits whom they suspect and fear.

			SYMPTOM No. 2: HALLUCINATIONS

			Hallucinations involve seeing or hearing things that do not exist. 10Hallucinations are when a person sees, hears, smells, tastes, or feels things that are not actually there. Hearing voices is common for people with schizophrenia. People who hear voices may hear them for a long time before family or friends notice a problem.10

			SYMPTOM No. 3: DISORGANIZED THINKING AND SPEECH

			Disorganized thinking and disorganized speech are important symptoms of schizophrenia. A schizophrenic patient thinks in an unusual or illogical way. Communication with a schizophrenic patient can be impaired because he no longer answers questions completely. You may lose your friendship with a schizophrenic patient because he can no longer communicate properly with you.

			In schizophrenia, the person’s thoughts are disorganized and do not make sense any longer. In disorganized speech, a person may jump from one unrelated topic, speak very quickly and stumble over words so that other people find it difficult to hear or understand what he is saying.

			People with disorganized thinking may have trouble organizing their thoughts and speech. Sometimes a person will stop talking in the middle of a thought, jump from topic to topic, or make up words that have no meaning.

			When their speech includes putting together several meaningless words that cannot be understood, it is called a word salad!

			SYMPTOM No. 4: DISORGANIZED BEHAVIOUR

				A schizophrenia patient can manifest disorganized behaviour in several different ways.

				A schizophrenia patient may suddenly behave like a silly child.

				A schizophrenia patient may unexpectedly become agitated.

				A schizophrenia patient may suddenly be unable to complete a task.

				A schizophrenia patient may become resistant to instructions.

				A schizophrenia patient may suddenly manifest useless or excessive movements.

				A schizophrenia patient may assume an inappropriate and bizarre posture.

			SYMPTOM No. 5: NEGATIVE SYMPTOMS

			Negative symptoms are so called because patients withdraw from the world around them and take no interest in every day social interactions. The negative symptoms also describe a withdrawal of the emotions of the person, so he now appears emotionless and flat. Always remember the word “withdrawal” when you read about the “negative symptoms” of schizophrenia. They are the “withdrawal from life” symptoms. In negative symptoms, there is a loss of interest, a loss of motivation, a loss of enjoyment, a loss of emotions and a loss of function.

			The five A’s of schizophrenia refer to five medical words that are used to describe the negative or (withdrawal from life) symptoms of schizophrenia.

			1.	AFFECTIVE FLATTENING: A withdrawal of normal emotional display and the withdrawal of normal facial expressions.

			2.	ALOGIA: A withdrawal from normal thought life and a withdrawal of speech, resulting in a quiet or silent person.

			3.	AVOLITION: A withdrawal from normal social activities and movements. A withdrawal from planning, starting and initiating activities.

			4.	ANHEDONIA: A withdrawal from pleasurable activities and pleasure.

			5.	ASOCIALITY: A withdrawal from relationships and social interactions.





CHAPTER 6




Stages of Disloyalty: Schizophrenia




Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.

1 Corinthians 4:2

			The stages of disloyalty* describe how a person gradually becomes disloyal and unfaithful. No one plans to be treacherous. No one wants to be Judas! No one wants to be cast away like Lucifer! But how is it that so many good people become disloyal? How did they change to become the monsters that we know them to be?

			Disloyalty is often a gradual process and the stages of disloyalty reveal how this process happens. Amazingly, every single stage of disloyalty is comparable to a significant mental symptom or sign. Most pastors have not analysed how the stages of disloyalty match up with significant mental health symptoms. Remember that mental illness is diagnosed through the abnormal thoughts, moods and behaviour that people have.

			What are the stages of disloyalty?

				The stages of disloyalty are the stages which a person goes through when he is becoming disloyal.

				The stages of disloyalty are the stages which a person goes through when he is becoming a Judas.

				The stages of disloyalty are the stages which a person goes through when he is becoming an Absalom.

				The stages of disloyalty are the stages which a person goes through when he is turning into Lucifer.

			The stages of disloyalty are simple:

			1.	The independent spirit

			2.	The stage of offence

			3.	The stage of passivity

			4.	The stage of being critical

			5.	The stage of being political

			6.	The stage of deception

			7.	The stage of open rebellion

			8.	 The stage of destruction

			1.	THE STAGE OF INDEPENDENCE:

			O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the LORD our maker.

			For he is our God; and WE ARE THE PEOPLE OF HIS PASTURE, AND THE SHEEP OF HIS HAND. …

			Psalm 95:6-7

			The Bible teaches us to work without being independent of our shepherd or of the house of God. Attempting to become independent of what God has created you to depend on will result in abnormality, destruction and defeat. The Word of God teaches inter-dependence. God does not teach us to be independent. On the contrary, the Word of God reveals that we need one another.

			God having provided some better thing for us, that THEY WITHOUT US SHOULD NOT BE MADE PERFECT.

			Hebrews 11:40

			Independence occurs when people withdraw from the group they belong to. Schizophrenia is all about a negative and senseless withdrawal from the world you belong to.

			Independence is an abnormality in nature. A sheep who seeks to gain independence of its shepherd is abnormal. Sheep are the most dependent animals on earth.

			Independence is an abnormality in nature. An unborn child who pushes his way out of his mother’s womb to gain independence before time is abnormal.

			The stage of independence is an abnormality, which matches closely with what is known as the “Negative withdrawal from life” symptoms of schizophrenia. People who withdraw from a group which they should have been a part of, exhibit behaviour that is uncannily similar to the negative withdrawal symptoms of schizophrenia.

			People with the “negative symptoms” of schizophrenia are so called because the patients negatively withdraw from the world around them and take no interest in every day social interactions (Alogia, Anhedonia, Avolition, Affective flattening, Asociality). People in the independent stage of disloyalty also withdraw from the church world around them and take little interest in the goings on in the church.

			People in the independent stage of disloyalty withdraw emotionally and physically from the church and its leadership. In the “negative symptoms’ of schizophrenia, there is a withdrawal of the emotions of the person, and he now appears emotionless and flat. Always remember the word “withdrawal” when you read about the “negative symptoms” of schizophrenia. They are the “withdrawal from life” symptoms. They are the symptoms that create independence and separation.

			When people have the “negative symptoms” of schizophrenia, there is a loss of interest, a loss of motivation, a loss of enjoyment, a loss of emotions and a loss of function. Similarly when people are in the independent stage of disloyalty, there is a loss of interest, a loss of motivation, a loss of enjoyment, a loss of emotions and a loss of function in the church and the group they once belonged to.

			2.	THE STAGE OF OFFENCE:

			Woe unto the world because of offences! for it must needs be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh!

			Matthew 18:7

			The stage of offence often triggers the “negative withdrawal symptoms” of schizophrenia. The Bible teaches us that offences and stumbling blocks will surely happen. Offences and stumbling blocks cause people to withdraw. Being offended is inevitable. However, there are people who are offended so deeply that they never recover from their hurts and offences. They have an abnormal reaction to offence and develop withdrawal and negative symptoms. Their hurts and offences lead to their destruction and the end of their ministries. The stage of offence is a common occurrence in Christian leadership.

			The stage of offence also matches up closely with a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. In Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder, there are individuals who have been greatly offended, hurt and affected by a traumatic experience. In the church setting, there are people who are so offended, hurt and affected by a traumatic experience that they cannot think normally any more. Such people can be said to be suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.

			I have seen people so offended because they were asked questions about money they had used for a project. I have seen people so offended because they were rebuked at a meeting. The offence was so deep that they resigned from the church and went away huffing and puffing!

			I have seen people so offended because they were asked questions which others were also asked. They were so offended by the implications of those questions that they went off on a tangent and became enemies of the church. Some people cannot stand the stress of strong administrative and corrective meetings.

			3.	THE STAGE OF PASSIVITY:

			Cursed be he that doeth the work of the LORD deceitfully, and cursed be he that keepeth back his sword from blood.

			Jeremiah 48:10

			The Bible teaches us to work without holding back or being passive. Holding back, quietness and withdrawal into passivity is a classic symptom of the “passivity stage” of disloyalty.

			The stage of passivity matches up closely with the “negative or withdrawing symptoms” of schizophrenia. Remember that you need five important symptoms to make a diagnosis of schizophrenia. The five symptoms of schizophrenia are delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, disorganized behaviour and negative (withdrawing) symptoms.

			In schizophrenia, the “negative (withdrawing) symptoms” are exhibited when an individual withdraws from normal social interaction, normal friendships and normal pleasures.

			A schizophrenic patient will also exhibit a withdrawal from normal thought life and a withdrawal of normal speech resulting in a quiet or silent person.

			This is called Alogia. In the church or work setting, there are people who are so offended, hurt and affected by experiences in the church that they stop speaking and withdraw from fellowship. They become silent people with no comment to make!

			In the stage of passivity, the people do not interact or speak out as much as they should. These quiet people are often breeding dangerous, negative thoughts within themselves. They will soon manifest as yet another Lucifer! They will soon manifest as yet another Absalom! They will soon openly rebel and show the whole world that they are the next Judas Iscariot!

			4.	THE CRITICAL STAGE:

			Do all things without murmurings and disputings:

			Philippians 2:14

			The Bible teaches us to work without murmuring and disputing. Murmuring and disputing are classic symptoms of the criticism stage of disloyalty. People in this stage of disloyalty say many things, jumping from one slanderous story to another, raising questions, doubts and suspicions about many things.

			Amazingly, a person with schizophrenia has disorganized speech and also quickly jumps from one unrelated topic to another. He engages in an incoherent “word salad” repeating things which other people have said or speaking about things that do not exist.

			In the stage of criticism, a person says things that you would not expect him to say. He criticizes everything, including things that he praised some time ago. This is truly disorganized thinking.

			The critical stage of disloyalty matches up closely with the symptom of disorganized thinking and disorganized speech of a schizophrenia patient. Remember that schizophrenia has five important symptoms for diagnosis. The five symptoms of schizophrenia are delusions, hallucinations, disorganized speech, disorganized behaviour and negative (withdrawing) symptoms.

			In schizophrenia, the person’s thoughts are disorganized and do not make sense any longer. In disorganized speech, a person may jump from one unrelated topic to another, speak very quickly and stumble over words so that other people find it difficult to hear or understand what he is saying. In disorganized speech, communication is difficult and sometimes impossible to understand.

			Similarly, in the church world, it is difficult to communicate with rebellious people. Rebels are difficult to understand. No one can understand what they want or what they are thinking about. Do you love God? Do you want the anointing? Do you want money? Do you want God? Do you want to be in the ministry? Do you want to be employed? Do you want to continue to be a servant of God?

			Why do you want to destroy yourself? What is wrong with you? Why have you changed so dramatically? Why are you exhibiting such abnormal speech and behaviour? Why do you speak lies and slander? Why do you speak with incomplete sentences and so many untruths?

			Why do you speak a series of jumbled up half-truths and half lies? Why do you say the opposite of what you said a few years ago, as though your Bible has been edited? Why do you speak words of honour yesterday and then speak words of dishonour and ingratitude today? Do you change your beliefs so radically every few years?

			Why do you say somebody is your father and at the same time attack him in public? Why do you say somebody is your father and dishonour him at the first chance? Your thinking seems to be disorganised! You seem to have gone mad! Why do you say you believe in God and yet disobey the Word of God so blatantly? Your speech and your thinking are disorganised and it is a symptom of madness! It is the incoherent and conflicting confusion of ministers gone mad! You are mad!

			5.	THE POLITICAL STAGE:

			I HAVE NOT SAT WITH VAIN PERSONS, neither will I go in with dissemblers. I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit with the wicked.

			Psalm 26:4-5

			The Bible teaches us not to sit with wretched and miserable men. Do not sit down to have lunch or fellowship with empty barrels and wretched miserable personalities who only plan evil. A good person will never plan to attack God’s servant. You lack biblical intelligence when you attack God’s work.

			IF THEY SAY, “COME ALONG WITH US; let’s lie in wait for innocent blood, let’s ambush some harmless soul; let’s swallow them alive, like the grave, and whole, like those who go down to the pit; WE WILL GET ALL SORTS OF VALUABLE THINGS and fill our houses with plunder; cast lots with us; we will all share the loot”—

			my son, DO NOT GO ALONG WITH THEM, do not set foot on their paths; FOR THEIR FEET RUSH INTO EVIL, they are swift to shed blood.

			Proverbs 1:11-16 (NIV)

			The Bible teaches us to avoid being drawn into groups that are up to no good. There are many groups in churches, which are up to no good. Rebellious pastors always group together! They form cliques, associations and friendships! They take pictures together and they go for dinner together! They show the whole world that they are associated with each other!

			However, the Bible teaches us, “If they say, come along with us, let us swallow up our former church and pastor with grief and in evil, do not go along with them.” It is amazing that such people will always reach out to others to see who will join them. Indeed, they need the company of each other to strengthen themselves in their delusions and madness. Such people are willingly ignorant of the prophecy that predicts the doom of wretched rebels!

			ASSOCIATE YOURSELVES, O YE PEOPLE, AND YE SHALL BE BROKEN IN PIECES; and give ear, all ye of far countries: gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces.

			Isaiah 8:9

			The political stage of disloyalty is an abnormality which matches closely with a key symptom of schizophrenia known as the “delusions of schizophrenia”. A delusion is a belief that someone maintains in spite of whatever evidence is shown. There is a special delusion called “Induced delusions” or “folie à deux”.

			Shared Madness

			Induced delusions (folie à deux) is a form of delusion where two people who are usually in a close relationship, share the same delusions. One of the partners may be the dominant personality who influences the weaker personality into adopting the delusion.

			It is amazing how people form groups based on an evil belief or a delusion. After a while, you will realise that all members of the group get lost.

			This shared delusion becomes the basis for the destruction of the entire group. It is amazing that a delusion in one mentally ill patient can be transmitted to another perfectly normal person.

			If people are causing divisions among you, give a first and second warning. AFTER THAT, HAVE NOTHING MORE TO DO WITH THEM. For people like that have turned away from the truth, and their own sins condemn them.

			Titus 3:10-11 (NLT)

			It is important that you ensure that someone’s madness is not transmitted to you. Have nothing more to do with them. Associations with evil, treacherous and disloyal people are not neutral encounters. You may receive an impartation of their madness! Watch out! You can easily imbibe the delusions and wickedness of the person you interact with. We are learning here that you can actually receive a transmission of the mental health symptom that another person has.

			I have watched how people, filled with madness and hatred, transmit their madness to others until they have formed a group of crazy men. All the people in that group are filled with the same hatred which has no reason nor basis. Be careful that no one co-opts you to follow the madness of a wretched and wicked rebel!

			6.	THE STAGE OF DECEPTION:

			While evildoers and impostors will go from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived.

			2 Timothy 3:13 (NIV)

			The stage of deception in disloyalty is an advanced condition in which people become convinced that right is wrong and wrong is right! Armed with these deceptions, they are able to carry out their slander, their blasphemies and their malicious acts with conviction. Many evildoers are convinced that they are doing the right thing. Some even see themselves as reformers and correctors of God’s church. Delusions and deceptions are strong symptoms of madness.

			However, the Bible teaches us to avoid and to overcome deception. Deceiving and being deceived are classic symptoms of the deception stage of disloyalty. People in this stage of disloyalty are completely deluded and taken up in their deception. Satan is the father of deception and originator of all lies. When people are fully taken over by the devil, they tell lies, they deceive people and they deceive themselves too. Deception is necessary for almost every kind of evil to thrive. Without some form of deception, many evils would not exist.

			Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because THERE IS NO TRUTH IN HIM. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.

			John 8:44

			The deception stage of disloyalty is an abnormality which matches closely with a key symptom of schizophrenia. In terms of mental illness, the deception stage matches closely with what is known as the delusions of schizophrenia.

			A delusion is a belief that someone has in spite of whatever evidence is shown!

			The Bible warns us about the danger of delusions. Indeed, the scripture reveals that delusions are a prelude and precursor to damnation and destruction.

			And for this cause GOD SHALL SEND THEM STRONG DELUSION, that they should believe a lie: THAT THEY ALL MIGHT BE DAMNED who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.

			2 Thessalonians 2:11-12

			A delusion is a fixed and false belief that is resistant to reason! Many rebellious people have fixed and false beliefs that are resistant to reason.

			A delusion is a fixed and false belief that is resistant to confrontation with actual fact! Many rebellious people have fixed and false beliefs that are resistant to confrontation with actual fact.

			Most disloyal people are resistant to truth and facts. They prefer to hold on to their deceptions until they perish completely. This is why delusions are a cardinal symptom of madness.

			No amount of negotiations and discussions will change a person with delusions. You may present them with all the truths and facts that you have and they will still not yield! They will insist on maintaining the course which they have chartered. It is so sad to see bishops, pastors and reverend ministers stuck in their delusions; unable to change, unable to stop doing evil and unable to say sorry.

			A person who is unable to repent often has a delusion which he is holding onto. A person who is unable to change often has a delusion which he is holding onto.

			A delusion is a mistaken or an unfounded opinion that is resistant to reason!

			A delusion is an erroneous belief that a person holds on to in the face of contrary evidence!

			You can see from the definitions of a delusion that it is a highly dangerous thing to have.

			There must be some form of madness that will cause a person to hold firmly onto a deception until he is absolutely destroyed.

			7.	THE STAGE OF OPEN REBELLION:

			FOR I KNOW THY REBELLION, AND THY STIFF NECK: behold, while I am yet alive with you this day, ye have been rebellious against the LORD; and how much more after my death?

			Gather unto me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, that I may speak these words in their ears, and call heaven and earth to record against them.

			For I know that after my death ye will utterly corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you; and evil will befall you in the latter days; because ye will do evil in the sight of the Lord, to provoke him to anger through the work of your hands.

			And Moses spake in the ears of all the congregation of Israel the words of this song, until they were ended.

			Deuteronomy 31:27-30

			Open rebellion is where a person openly attacks an authority figure that he should rather honour. Open rebellion is the last stage in the series of unfortunate and improper patterns of behaviour called disloyalty.

			Rebellion is found in all men. However, through teaching and through the scriptures, the natural instincts of mankind to rebel are quelled!

			Moses spoke from his heart when he warned the children of Israel before he died. He told them that he knew they would rebel! He knew the Israelites would be disobedient and disloyal because that was the nature of man. Man is often irrational and irreverent.

			The open rebellion stage of disloyalty is an abnormality which matches closely with a key symptom of schizophrenia. The open rebellion stage of disloyalty matches closely with what is known as the disorganised behaviour of schizophrenia.

			The symptom of disorganised behaviour manifests as bizarre and inappropriate behaviour and actions.

			Most people in the open rebellious stage of disloyalty exhibit bizarre and inappropriate behaviour. They behave as though they have schizophrenia.

			They may openly attack someone they have previously hailed and honoured.

			They may go out into the public, insult and accuse someone they have loved before.

			They may dishonour dignitaries and speak words that are inappropriate and bizarre.

			People with schizophrenia have disorganized thoughts, speech and behaviour.

			Indeed, the thoughts, speech and behaviour of openly rebellious people are completely bizarre, completely out of order and completely inappropriate.

			People with open rebellion spread preposterous lies and wicked stories with the aim of demeaning, debasing and degrading God’s servants.

			Whilst good Christians seek to honour God’s servants, openly rebellious individuals do the exact opposite! Many mad men seek to disgrace, embarrass, defame and insult God’s holy prophets. Openly rebellious behaviour is completely inappropriate and bizarre and that is why it is so comparable to schizophrenia!





CHAPTER 7




The Madman of Gadara: Schizophrenia




			He lived among the tombs; and no one was able to bind him anymore, not even with a chain,

			because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him and the shackles broken in pieces; and no one was strong enough to subdue him. Constantly, night and day, he was screaming among the tombs and in the mountains, and cutting himself with stones.

			Mark 5:3-5 (NASB)

			The self-destructive madman of Gadara exhibits many symptoms which are the symptoms of many classical mental illness and which are also the symptoms of classical, abnormal, disloyal and treacherous behaviour in Christians. Let us read the Bible for ourselves and see whether these patterns are real or not.

			They came to the other side of the sea, into the region of the Gerasenes.

			When He got out of the boat, immediately a man from the tombs with an unclean spirit met Him.

			He lived among the tombs; and no one was able to bind him anymore, not even with a chain,

			because he had often been bound with shackles and chains, and the chains had been torn apart by him and the shackles broken in pieces; and no one was strong enough to subdue him. Constantly, night and day, he was screaming among the tombs and in the mountains, and cutting himself with stones.

			Seeing Jesus from a distance, he ran up and bowed down before Him; and shouting with a loud voice, he said, “What business do You have with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I implore You by God, do not torment me!”

			For He had already been saying to him, “Come out of the man, you unclean spirit!”

			And He was asking him, “What is your name?” And he said to Him, “My name is Legion, for we are many.”

			And he begged Him earnestly not to send them out of the region.

			Now there was a large herd of pigs feeding nearby on the mountain.

			The demons implored Him, saying, “Send us into the swine so that we may enter them.”

			Jesus gave them permission. And coming out, the unclean spirits entered the swine; and the herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea, about two thousand of them; and they were drowned in the sea.

			Their herdsmen ran away and reported it in the city and in the country. And the people came to see what it was that had happened.

			They came to Jesus and observed the man who had been demon-possessed sitting down, clothed and in his right mind, the very man who had had the “legion”; and they became frightened.

			Mark 5:1-15 (NASB)

			Mental Illness in the Mad Man of Gadara

			The story of the mad man of Gadara reveals many of the classic signs of schizophrenia and other mental illnesses. Indeed, many of the symptoms of well-known mental illness are demonstrated in the mad man of Gadara. This scripture is one of the cardinal reasons why Christians believe that mental illness is caused by evil spirits.

			Indeed, mental illness, just like any other illness, can be caused by something natural or it can be caused purely by evil spirits. Indeed, smoking cannabis is a well-known cause of schizophrenia. Spiritual people are however entitled to believe the Bible and what it says about the mad man of Gadara.

			Let us look closely at the symptoms of the madman of Gadara. You will see that demonic influence is closely linked with mental illness, which in turn is closely linked to disloyalty and other abnormal behaviour.

			1.	The demonized man of Gadara was separated from society. This separation from society is one of the negative withdrawal symptoms of schizophrenia. The withdrawal and separation from a church, fellowship or family to which you rightfully belong, is characteristic of those with disloyalty and treachery.

			2.	The demonized man of Gadara did not want the pleasure of living at home but chose rather to live in the cemetery. This loss of interest in anything pleasurable is one of the “negative withdrawal symptoms of schizophrenia” and is also called anhedonia. The withdrawal from a church, fellowship or group to which you belong and which you have enjoyed for years is characteristic of betrayers.

			3.	The demonized man of Gadara was uncontrollable. No one could advise him! This stubbornness is the medical symptom called “disorganized behaviour” of schizophrenia. Stubborn refusal to change is characteristic of several mental disorders such as, “Delusional Disorder, schizophrenia and the schizotypal personality disorder.” Similarly, resistance to instructions, refusal to change and refusal to obey any commandments is characteristic of those with disloyalty and treachery.

			4.	The demonized man of Gadara was harming and destroying himself. No one could stop him or help him! This self-harm and self-destructive behaviour is a medical symptom called “disorganized behaviour” of schizophrenia. It is also a symptom of medical condition called depression. Similarly, those with disloyal and treacherous behaviour harm themselves in the ministry.

				They move out of position and move into obscurity, never bearing the fruit that they would have borne if they had remained faithful. They are aware that their unfaithfulness leads to self-harm and self-destruction but they choose to harm themselves and destroy themselves anyway!

			5.	The demonized man of Gadara exhibited two extremes. On one hand, he was violent, harmful and uncontrollable and in the next moment he was kneeling at the feet of Jesus and worshipping.

				This extreme behaviour of a person, sometimes very sad, slow and depressed, combined with very excited, and exuberant is the medical condition called a “bipolar disorder.” Some people exhibit extreme loyalty and faithfulness, even fighting battles and taking bullets for you. The next moment, they may be found hating you, fighting you and seeking your destruction. Surely, the demons were the cause of the bipolar condition in the madman of Gadara. The bipolar condition is comparable to someone who switches from being very faithful to being very disloyal.

			6.	The demonized man of Gadara was hearing from demons that were controlling his behaviour and making him abnormal. In medical science, this is a medical symptom called “hallucinations.” When you hear voices speaking to you, you are exhibiting a medical symptom called auditory hallucinations. It is interesting that many people who leave churches, families and fellowships unceremoniously, attacking and destroying as they go, claim to have heard from the Holy Spirit. They claim to have heard the voice of God, just like the mad man of Gadara was hearing from demons.

				The mad man of Gadara was hearing from demons, which made him destroy his life and live in a cemetery.

			7.	The demonized man of Gadara tried to kill himself by cutting himself with stones. The pigs on the other hand, immediately “committed suicide”, when the demons entered them. There are many medical mental health conditions, which lead to suicide. Depression patients are prone to committing suicide. Many people on psychotic medication have suicidal tendencies as a side effect of their drugs.

				Interestingly, when pastors become possessed with demons, they tend to self-destruct. They destroy themselves utterly and destroy their chance to ever be in the ministry again. They seem not to care about their lives or what they have believed in, in the past.

				Like the pigs, which “committed suicide” when the demons entered them, these rebellious pastors run into the water, destroy themselves and are forever gone from the world of ministry.

				Be careful that demons do not cause you to behave like a mad man in the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ.





CHAPTER 8




Understanding Dementia




			Dementia is a general term for the loss of memory, the loss of language, the loss of the ability to solve problems and the loss of the ability to think.

			Memory often changes as people grow older. Some people notice changes in their memory before anyone else does. Friends and family are often the first to see changes in memory, behaviour or abilities.

			Your memory changes as you grow older but it is not supposed to disrupt your daily life. When the loss of memory disrupts your daily life, then there is a problem. Memory loss that disrupts daily life is not a normal part of aging.

			Dementia occurs when the loss of memory leads to troubling behaviour problems and communication difficulties.

			How can you diagnose dementia in someone? You can diagnose dementia if you make some of the following observations in a person. People with any of these signs may be developing dementia.

			Twenty Signs of Dementia

			1.	A person with dementia may be unable to recall information about himself, like his address or telephone number, the high school or university he attended.

			2.	A person with dementia may forget his personal history.

			3.	A person with dementia may forget important events that have taken place in his life.

			4.	A person with dementia may forget things that he has learnt very well, like things he does at work.

			5.	A person with dementia may forget things, even after he has been reminded of them.

			6.	A person with dementia may not recognize family members.

			7.	A person with dementia may forget relationships that he has.

			8.	A person with dementia may call family members by other names.

			9.	A person with dementia may become confused about the location of his home or the passage of time.

			10.	A person with dementia may forget the use of common items, such as the use of a pen or the use of cutlery.

			11.	A person with dementia can become tired and unable to concentrate. The tiredness can cause people with dementia not to eat. A lack of concentration and coordination can make it difficult for them to eat.

			12.	Dementia is characterized by increasing confusion about where they are or even what day it is.

			13.	Dementia is characterized by poor judgment and may require help in choosing proper clothing for the season or in controlling their bladder and bowels.

			14.	Dementia is characterized by significant behaviour changes.

			15.	A person with dementia shows an increased tendency to wander and to become lost.

			16.	A person with dementia may be moody or withdrawn, especially in socially or mentally challenging situations.

			17.	A person with dementia may demonstrate personality and behavioural changes, becoming more irritable, upset or emotional.

			18.	A person with dementia may develop suspicions and delusions.

			19.	A person with dementia may eventually be confined to a bed or a chair.

			20.	A person with dementia may die because damaged brain and nerve cells can lead to pneumonia, strokes, falls, infections or malnutrition that can be fatal. Alzheimer’s disease is the most common manifestation of dementia among older adults. It is caused by changes in the brain, including abnormal build-ups of proteins known as amyloid plaques and tau tangles. The average life expectancy for Alzheimer’s disease is around eight to ten years.





CHAPTER 9




Those Who Forget: Dementia




			For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.

			Hebrews 6:10

			Those who forget are guilty of unrighteousness, a sin that is mentioned clearly in the Bible. To forget and to fail to acknowledge, are sins before God. People forget God when they prosper! People forget God when things are going well with them! People forget to acknowledge God after they become millionaires.

			God does not forget! Man forgets but God does not forget! People who forget do not have the nature of God. The natural man does not want to remember those who have helped him. The natural man does not like to remember where he came from. The natural man does not want anyone to know how he came to be who he is.

			The proud, natural man believes he is self-made and thinks that he came to where he is by his own power.

			You must take the concept of “remembering” very seriously. The Psalmist knew that it would be a tragedy if he could not remember important things that God had done for him in Jerusalem.

			But how can we sing the songs of the Lord while in a pagan land?

			IF I FORGET YOU, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget how to play the harp.

			May my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth IF I FAIL TO REMEMBER YOU, if I don’t make Jerusalem my greatest joy.

			Psalm 137:4-6 (NLT)

			It is interesting that the illness, dementia, which is one of the serious mental health conditions plaguing our world, leads to a loss of important memory. Let us note the comparisons that exist between “those who forget” and those who have dementia.

			Many disloyal people forget important things. They act as though they cannot remember any good thing that has been done for them. There is an interesting parallel between those who forget and those who are mad. Perhaps forgetful traitors and wicked “forgetters” of important things actually have gone mad!

			1.	EVIL MEN FORGET THEIR PERSONAL HISTORY AND DEMENTIA PATIENTS ALSO FORGET THEIR PERSONAL HISTORY.

			And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt: and thou shalt observe and do these statutes.

			Deuteronomy 16:12

			Remember these signs of dementia:

				A person with dementia may forget his personal history.

				A person with dementia may forget important events that have taken place in his life.

			Those who forget (traitors, disloyal men, those who dishonour fathers, dangerous sons, ignorant people) do not remember important events in their lives. They do not remember their own personal history. Those who forget do not remember their training in Bible School. They do not remember who they were and how far out they were in this life when God reached out to them and blessed them.

			Forgetting is a terrible spiritual evil but it is also one of the main signs of dementia. The children of Israel forgot the major events of their lives, including how they crossed the Red Sea.

			Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:

			Psalm 103:2

			2.	EVIL MEN FORGET THE MOST BASIC THINGS AND DEMENTIA PATIENTS ALSO FORGET THE MOST BASIC THINGS.

			Can a maid forget her ornaments, or a bride her attire? yet my people have forgotten me days without number.

			Jeremiah 2:32

			A person with dementia may forget the most common items on a dining table. A person with dementia may not know what to do with a fork, a knife, a spoon or a plate. A person with dementia may even put food on the table, rather than on the plate because she has forgotten what the plate is for.

			It is amazing that those who forget in the church, forget the most basic scriptures on forgiveness, love, obedience and faithfulness. A person who becomes unfaithful has often forgotten the most basic scriptures of all. A maid cannot forget her basic ornaments or her wedding dress, but those who forget, can forget the most basic rules of the Christian life.

			Those who forget often become disloyal, treacherous and wicked. Traitors, disloyal men and those who dishonour fathers are the best examples of those who forget. They forget basics like “Honour your father and mother that it may be well with you; that you may live long on the earth” (Ephesians 6:2-3).

			Forgetting is indeed a terrible spiritual evil!

			3.	EVIL MEN FORGET THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS AND THOSE WITH DEMENTIA ALSO FORGET THEIR FAMILY MEMBERS.

			For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.

			Hebrews 6:10

			Unfortunately, a person with dementia may forget the most important people in his life. A person with dementia can set aside his pastor, his father, his friend of eighteen years and walk away as though he has never known them. Such loss of memory and abnormal behaviour is baffling!

			People with dementia will look at their husbands and call them their sons! People with dementia will see their sons and call them their husbands.

			People with dementia will see their fathers and say the electrician is here. People with dementia will call the security man their husbands, because they do not remember relationships any longer.

			It is amazing that “those who forget” in the church forget the most basic of relationships.

			Those who forget often become disloyal, treacherous and wicked! Traitors, disloyal men and those who dishonour fathers are the best examples of those who forget. Incredulously, such people do not remember the all-important relationships that they have developed over the years.

			They do not remember fathers; they do not remember mothers and they do not remember brothers. Relationships mean nothing to those who forget!

			Forgetting relationships is a terrible spiritual evil but it is also one of the main signs of dementia.

			How can you forget the love relationships that you have enjoyed for fifteen years and turn into an enemy?

			4.	EVIL MEN ARE CONFUSED ABOUT MANY THINGS AND THOSE WITH DEMENTIA ALSO GET CONFUSED ABOUT MANY THINGS.

			Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses, and dwelt therein; And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied;

			Then thine heart be lifted up, and THOU FORGET THE LORD THY GOD, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage;

			Deuteronomy 8:12-14

			A person with dementia is characterized by increasing confusion about where they are or even what day it is. Dementia is characterized by confusion! Dementia patients may require help in choosing proper clothing for the season or even in controlling their bladder.

			Incredulously, disloyal people change so much when they are filled with pride in their achievements. As the scripture says, when they have eaten and are full, they forget God. People do not forget at the beginning. However, with time, when they have eaten, when they have built goodly houses, they forget how they came to be where they are.

			Confusion, poor analysis and bad decisions are the hallmarks of those who forget. Relationships mean nothing to those who forget. The help people have received means nothing to those who forget. God warns us severely never to become one of those who forget.

			5.	EVIL MEN HAVE PERSONALITY CHANGES AND DEMENTIA PATIENTS ALSO UNDERGO PERSONALITY CHANGES.

			Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses, and dwelt therein; And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied;

			THEN THINE HEART BE LIFTED UP, and THOU FORGET the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage;

			Deuteronomy 8:12-14

			It is amazing that those with dementia experience significant behaviour and personality changes. Dementia patients may become more and more moody and withdrawn. People with dementia also become irritable, upset or emotional.

			Those who forget are often proud, rude and disloyal. Rebellious pastors are good examples of those who forget. Rebellious pastors seem to have undergone a change in their personalities! A person who is filled with pride seems to have undergone a complete metamorphosis in his personality.

			People do not change their behaviour at the beginning. However, with time, as pride grows in a person, there are real personality changes and changes in their way of speaking.

			Men of pride also become withdrawn, irritable, upset and emotional about little things. If they were not proud, they would not be upset, they would not be withdrawn and they would not be irritable when they were rebuked or corrected.

			6.	EVIL MEN BECOME DESOLATE IN MINISTRY AND DEMENTIA PATIENTS ARE CONFINED TO A BED OR A CHAIR, DOING NOTHING.

			Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses, and dwelt therein; And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied;

			THEN THINE HEART BE LIFTED UP, and THOU FORGET the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage;

			Deuteronomy 8:12-14

			Dementia is characterized by serious limitations in a person’s life. A dementia patient is no longer fruitful or active. Many people with dementia die within eight to ten years of diagnosis. Often, those who suffer from dementia have damaged brain and nerve cells, which can lead to more and more illnesses until the person dies prematurely.

			Perhaps, these patients who are confined to a bed or a chair could have been roaming around the world doing things they loved but the illness confines them to a single room, to a single chair and to a single bed.

			Those who forget are also often fruitless, barren and desolate.

			In school, those who forget their notes and their points during exams do not do well in those exams. Those who forget their biology notes can never become doctors. Those who forget their history points can never become lawyers.

			Forgetting has serious effects on the life of the one who forgets. Those who forget are confined to a limited sphere of ministry. Those who forget are cut off from the people who would have related with them and helped their churches to grow.

			People are afraid of pastors who seem to have forgotten their roots. People are afraid of founders who do not remember where they learnt their ministry from. The first question they may ask is “Who is your father? Whose son is he?”

			And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, WHOSE SON IS THIS YOUTH? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.

			1 Samuel 17:55

			How much more fruitful would some ministers have been if they had just remembered who they were and how they came to be where they are!

			God requires remembrance! All through the Bible, the Word of God teaches us that remembrance is an important spiritual thing. May we be delivered from all forms of spiritual dementia!





CHAPTER 10




Understanding Bipolar Disorder




			1. 	Bipolar disorder refers to a condition in which a person swings from one pole to the other. The person swings from the North Pole to the South Pole. In other words, the person moves from one extreme to the other.

			2. 	In terms of mental illness, a person with bipolar disorder swings from the “north pole” which is Mania to the “south pole” which is Depression.

				Mania is a mental state in which a person is excited, happy and full of extreme energy.

				Depression is a mental state in which a person is sad, moody, slow and without energy.

			3. 	A person who has bipolar disorder therefore has two conditions in himself. The two moods in this illness, which are at opposite ends, are found in one person.

			4. 	In bipolar disorder, the dramatic experiences of high and low moods do not follow a set pattern. Sometimes a person may feel depressed (low mood) several times before he experiences mania (high mood) even once.

			5. 	High moods and low moods can occur in an individual over weeks, months and even years.

			6. 	The change in moods from high moods to low moods and the swing from one end to the other can be devastating and confusing to the people who live with a person with bipolar disorder.

			 CHARACTERISTICS OF MANIA – THE HIGH PERIODS

			1.	AN EXAGGERATED SENSE OF WELLBEING: A person with mania may express excessive happiness, hopefulness, and excitement. They have an exaggerated sense of well-being and confidence. A person with mania may experience sudden changes from being joyful to being irritable, angry, and hostile. A person with bipolar disorder may have hallucinations.

			2.	IMPULSIVE DECISIONS: A person with mania may be restless and do things that are inappropriate or risky. People with mania can make life-threatening and impulsive decisions.

			3.	RACING THOUGHTS: A person with mania may be impulsive and have racing thoughts. Having lots of thoughts on lots of topics is called a “flight of ideas”.

			4.	GRAND PLANS: A person with mania will make grand and unrealistic plans. A manic patient may gamble his rent money or his salary or invest in a business without doing due diligence.

			5.	POOR JUDGEMENT: A person with mania may show poor judgment. Sometimes, they are unable to stop spending money. For instance, they may suddenly feel that they need ten new dresses and fifteen pairs of shoes and go out to buy these things without checking whether they have enough money or not.

			6.	INCREASED ENERGY: A person with mania may experience increased energy and less need for sleep and may be easily distracted by unimportant or unrelated things.

			7.	FAST TALKING: A person with mania may speak or talk very rapidly. A person with mania will do most of the talking. It is almost impossible for them to wait for someone to finish their sentence before they interrupt because they feel it takes people too long to make their point.

			8.	HIGH SEX DRIVE: A person with mania may have an unusually high sex drive and have a higher number of sexual partners and a higher rate of casual sex. A person with mania may experience impulsive decision making when it comes to sex. Mania patients also have an increased arousal and increased sexual euphoria. They may engage prostitutes and not even be concerned about using condoms during manic episodes.

			9.	ABUSING DRUGS: Abusing drugs and alcohol is common with people with mania. A manic episode may be triggered by drugs, alcohol, a lack of sleep or a major life change such as a divorce or a loss of a job.

			10.	INCREASED APPETITE: Some people with mania voraciously eat much larger quantities of food than usual.

			CHARACTERISTICS OF DEPRESSION – THE LOW PERIODS

			1.	LOWERED MOOD: A person with depression may express excessive sadness, hopelessness and lack of excitement. Hopelessness is the hallmark of depression. Some people with depression feel hopeless all the time. Some people who are depressed feel that they are worthless. Others feel that everything is an effort all the time. Other people with a hopeless outlook may think, “It’s all my fault. What is the point?”

			2.	REDUCED COMMUNICATION: A person with depression may exhibit slow speech and difficulty in understanding information.

			3.	MEMORY PROBLEMS: Depression has been linked to memory problems such as forgetfulness and confusion. Depression and anxiety may lead to speech problems such as long pauses during a conversation.

			4.	UNCONTROLLABLE EMOTIONS: A person with depression may have uncontrollable fluctuating emotions. In one moment, there may be outbursts of anger and in another moment, there may be uncontrollable tears.

			5.	LOWERED SEX DRIVE: Losing interest in sex is a sign of depression. A decreased sex drive, and even impotence, is often a sign of depression. A person with depression loses interest in things that everyone has pleasure or enjoyment in. A loss of interest in activities that were previously enjoyed is a sign of depression.

			6.	LACK OF ENERGY: A person with depression may lack energy and feel tired all the time. Indeed, some people with depression may rather complain of feeling tired or sleepy rather than complaining of feeling depressed.

			7.	EATING PATTERNS: Some people with depression eat much larger quantities of food than usual whilst some others eat less. This means that a person with depression may either gain weight or lose weight.

			8.	SOCIAL WITHDRAWAL: Depressed people do not like to spend time with other people. Social withdrawal is one of the most common signs of depression. Depression often leads people to isolate themselves. Isolation during depression occurs because people feel miserable, worthless, unmotivated, irritable, angry, ashamed, misunderstood and hopeless.

			9.	SELF DESTRUCTION - SUICIDE: Many people who suffer from depression commit suicide.





CHAPTER 11




King Saul: Bipolar Disorder




			Now the Spirit of the Lord had left Saul, and the Lord sent A TORMENTING SPIRIT THAT FILLED HIM WITH DEPRESSION AND FEAR.

			Some of Saul’s servants said to him, “A tormenting spirit from God is troubling you.

			Let us find a good musician to play the harp whenever the tormenting spirit troubles you. He will play soothing music, and you will soon be well again.”

			 “All right,” Saul said. “Find me someone who plays well, and bring him here.”

			1 Samuel 16:14-17 (NLT)

			There are people who swing between extremes. They may have a touch of bipolar disorder. There are people who were once seen as fiercely loyal but turned around and became fiercely disloyal. People who are both loyal and disloyal can be described as bipolar, swinging from the South Pole to the North Pole.

			The life of Saul reveals the confusion of someone who swings between two poles. There are people who are neither here nor there. There are people who belong with you but also do not belong with you.

			The life of Saul reveals the connection between evil spirits, madness and confusion. King Saul suffered from several well-known diagnoses. King Saul swung between two extremes and therefore reflected a possible bipolar disorder or a borderline personality disorder.

			King Saul had a bipolar disorder because of his extreme mood swings and his uncontrollable emotions.

			King Saul had a borderline personality disorder because of his erratic behaviour and sudden changes of emotion. There are many people who cannot make up their minds as to where they belong.

			King Saul also suffered from paranoia because he was so afraid of little David, his harpist.

			King Saul had delusions because he was so convinced that David wanted to harm him when David had no intentions of overthrowing him.

			At that very moment the Spirit of GOD left Saul and in its place a black mood sent by GOD settled on him. He was terrified. Saul’s advisors said, “This awful tormenting depression from God is making your life miserable.

			1 Samuel 16:14-15 (MSG)

			The Scripture above declares that Saul was tormented with black moods that filled him with depression and fear. As Saul’s paranoia of David increased, he manifested bipolar symptoms.

			Saul exhibited a change in his behaviour and personality after the evil spirit afflicted him. He swung from one extreme to the other as he related with young David. Saul’s personality seemed to change from being humble and merciful to being angry and hateful against David and Jonathan.

			Saul was filled with depression and fear as he related with young David. He knew that his time was up because someone had replaced him in the realm of the spirit.

			King Saul had strong symptoms of depression and mania. At times, he was accommodating and loving to David and at other times he was throwing a spear at him.

			Saul also exhibited bipolar symptoms when he hunted David in the wilderness. When David refrained from killing Saul, they reconciled and returned home. David came to Saul’s court, only to be chased out again. On the second occasion, David crept into Saul’s camp in the night and cut a piece of his cloak. David confronted Saul the following day and begged Saul to explain why he was trying to kill him. Then Saul broke down and changed his mind in a fierce show of religiosity, calling on God and making emotional statements.

			King Saul and the Two Extremes

			1.	Saul employs David to play the harp and yet attacks him.

			And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand, as at other times: and there was a javelin in Saul’s hand. And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice.

			1 Samuel 18:10-11

			2. 	Saul employs David to play the harp and yet attacks him again.

			And the evil spirit from the LORD was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand: and David played with his hand. And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin; but he slipped away out of Saul’s presence, and he smote the javelin into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.

			1 Samuel 19:9-10

			3. 	Saul attempts to kill David and then speaks in a loving reconciling way to David.

			After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea. The LORD therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand. And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept. And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil. And thou hast shewed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me: forasmuch as when the LORD had delivered me into thine hand, thou killedst me not. For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore the LORD reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day. And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand. Swear now therefore unto me by the LORD, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father’s house. And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the hold.

			1 Samuel 24:14-22

			4.	Saul reconciles with David but still attempts to murder him.

			And Saul knew David’s voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king. And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in mine hand? Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If the LORD have stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering: but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before the LORD; for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the LORD, saying, Go, serve other gods. Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of the LORD: for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one doth hunt a partridge in the mountains. Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly. And David answered and said, Behold the king’s spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it. The LORD render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness: for the LORD delivered thee into my hand to day, but I would not stretch forth mine hand against the LORD’S anointed. And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of the LORD, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation. Then Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt still prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.

			 1 Samuel 26:17-25

			During the first confrontation, David cried out, “Now understand and recognize that I am not guilty of wrongdoing or rebellion. I have not wronged you, but you are hunting me down to take my life,” to which Saul responded, “You have treated me well, but I have treated you badly. You have just told me of the good you did to me… When a man finds his enemy, does he let him get away unharmed? May the Lord reward you well for the way you treated me today.”

			When David snuck into the camp the second time, he only stole Saul’s spear and water jug by the sleeping king’s head. The following day David questioned why Saul had changed his mind and hunted him down. Once again, Saul had changed completely.

			I have sinned. Come back, David my son. Because you considered my life precious today, I will not try to harm you again. Surely I have acted like a fool and have erred greatly… you will do great things and surely triumph.

			1 Samuel 26:21, 25 (NIV)





CHAPTER 12




Understanding Borderline Personality Disorder




			What is a Personality Disorder?

			1.	A personality disorder is a condition in which an individual differs significantly from an average person in terms of how they think and feel.

			2.	A person with a personality disorder has an unhealthy pattern of thinking and behaving.

			3.	To be classified as a personality disorder, a person’s way of thinking, feeling and behaving must deviate from the expectations of the culture.

			4.	To be classified as a personality disorder, one’s way of thinking, feeling and behaving must cause distress or problems that last over a period of time.

			What is Borderline Personality Disorder?

			1.	SOMETHING ON THE BORDER OF REAL MADNESS: Borderline Personality Disorder is called ‘borderline’ because doctors previously thought that it was on the border of outright mental illness or real madness.

			2.	THE COMMONEST PROBLEM: Borderline Personality Disorder is the most common personality disorder. In other words, it is the most common type of bizarre personality that you could encounter. Therefore, it is the most common type of bizarre personality someone could marry. It is the most common type of bizarre personality an employee could have. It is also the most common type of bizarre personality that could become a pastor or a bishop. This type of personality would lead to bizarre employees, bizarre pastors and bizarre bishops.

			3.	THINKING DIFFERENTLY: Borderline Personality Disorder thinks differently from other people. The pattern of thinking in a borderline personality disorder is uneasy, agitated and disturbed about everything. The person with this disorder has views that are at variance with everyone else’s.

			4.	UNDERSTANDING EVERYTHING DIFFERENTLY: Borderline Personality Disorder feels, understands and perceives everything differently from other people, giving rise to conflicts and bizarre relationships. When everyone understands the issue, the person with borderline personality disorder does not.

			5.	FEAR OF BEING DISMISSED: Borderline Personality Disorder is afraid of being abandoned. What does this mean? Borderline Personality Disorder is afraid of being dismissed from his job. It is not normal to live in constant fear of being dismissed or being set aside. People with borderline personality are in constant fear that they will be dumped or pushed away for some reason.

			6.	INTENSE CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS: Borderline personalities have intense and close and dependent relationships. A borderline personality is actually insecure, overemotional, and even possessive. Borderline personality disorders have a series of varying emotions that affect their intense relationships. They may have uncontrollable anger, fear, anxiety, hatred, sadness and love. These mood swings change frequently and suddenly and may last a few hours or a few days.

			7.	UNSTABLE FRIENDSHIPS: Borderline Personality Disorder has close and intense relationships, which are also unstable. These close relationships can change suddenly. Strong up and down relationships with family, with friends and with employment that can go from being very close to anger and hatred. A paranoid borderline personality disorder can be suspicious of everyone around them, and believe there are conspiracies to block their careers at work. Borderline personalities can carry grudges for years, and try to punish their targets of blame.

			8.	BLACK AND WHITE THINKING: Borderline personality disorder has what is called “a black-and-white view of the world”: This is also called black and white thinking. Such people have a love-hate relationship with people. One day, they would view their pastor or bishop or friend as the best person in the world. The next week, he will do a one hundred and eighty degree turn and say that the best person is now the worst person in the world. People with borderline personality disorder tend to change their views of others abruptly and dramatically.

			9.	EXTREME ANGER AND EMOTIONAL SWINGS: Borderline Personality Disorder has inappropriate, dangerous and explosive anger. The anger of a person with a borderline personality disorder can be dangerous to his own life, to his reputation and to his employment. Therapists and lawyers have noted that many frivolous and vexatious cases in labour courts, employment courts and family courts are brought there by people with borderline personality disorders.

			10.	IMPULSIVE: Borderline Personality Disorder can take impulsive decisions in the heat of the moment, sending abusive messages to the one they feel hurt by. This is why borderline personality disorder is also called Emotionally Unstable Personality Disorder.





CHAPTER 13




Absalom: Borderline Personality Disorder




			A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I be a father, where is mine honour? ...

			Malachi 1:6

			The Behaviour of a Normal Son

			1.	A son is someone who is connected closely to his father. A son resembles his father in many ways.

			Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? HE THAT HATH SEEN ME HATH SEEN THE FATHER…

			John 14:9

			2.	A son is forever. A son has a permanent, intense and close relationship with his father.

			And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but the Son abideth ever.

			John 8:35

			3.	Sons love their fathers intensely and trust them for everything.

			After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.

			Matthew 6:9

			4.	Sons honour their fathers and show them a lot of respect. Sons give gifts of great value to their fathers because they honour them so deeply.

			A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I be a father, where is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is my fear? saith the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name?

			Malachi 1:6

			5.	Sons love and obey their fathers. This is both emotional and also an act of conviction.

			Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right. Honour thy father and mother; (which is the first commandment with promise;) That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth.

			Ephesians 6:1-3

			6.	Sons are so close to their fathers that they end up doing what they see their fathers do.

			… The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.

			John 5:19

			7.	Sons tend to speak in the same way that their fathers speak. This is why the Father said about Jesus, “This is my beloved son.”

			When I was a son to my father, Tender and the only son in the sight of my mother, He taught me and said to me, “Let your heart hold fast my words; Keep my commandments and live;

			Proverbs 4:3-4(NASB)

				Yet, it is a well-known fact of history that there are sons who turn around and become the opposite of all these things I have listed. Absalom was one such dangerous son! His behaviour smacked of someone with a personality disorder. You must remember that a person with a personality disorder thinks and acts differently from a normal person!

			Absalom: A Man with a Personality Disorder

			Absalom qualifies to be a person with a personality disorder.

			1.	A personality disorder is a condition in which an individual differs significantly from an average person in terms of how they think and feel. Truly, Absalom differed significantly from any of King David’s other sons. His behaviour of dishonouring his own father differed from any of David’s sons.

			2.	A person with a personality disorder has an unhealthy pattern of thinking and behaving. Indeed, Absalom had an unhealthy pattern of thinking with conspiracies and plans of rebellion and plans of overthrowing his own father.

			3.	To be classified as a personality disorder, a person’s way of thinking, feeling and behaving must deviate from the expectations of the culture. Absalom was a complete deviant! He attempted to kill his own father and slept with his father’s wives. This went contrary to the expectations of the Israeli culture where they were taught to honour their fathers.

			4.	To be classified as a personality disorder, one’s way of thinking, feeling and behaving must cause distress or problems that last over time. Indeed, personality disorders can last for a long time. Absalom qualifies for a personality disorder because his way of thinking and behaving caused the greatest problems and distress to King David. King David was overthrown and ousted from office, through the activities of his son Absalom.

			5.	If you have a personality disorder, you may have a difficult time relating to others in the way that is expected by your culture. A person with a personality disorder may not be aware of this discrepancy between his thoughts and behaviour and those accepted by society. Absalom had a difficult time relating with the other army commanders and other children of David. Joab, the commander of David’s armies, could not accept the existence of Absalom in the nation and therefore he put him to death and buried him under a heap of stones.

			Absalom: A Man with a Borderline Personality Disorder

			1.	ABSALOM - BORDERS ON REAL MADNESS:

				Borderline Personality Disorder is called ‘borderline’ because doctors previously thought that it was right on the border of full-blown madness.

				Indeed, Absalom’s mental state borders on outright madness. Absalom’s actions, where he attempted to overthrow a legitimate king and bring down the institution of the royal family reeks of the logic of a mad man.

			And it came to pass after forty years, that Absalom said unto the king, I pray thee, let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed unto the LORD, in Hebron. For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode at Geshur in Syria, saying, If the LORD shall bring me again indeed to Jerusalem, then I will serve the LORD. And the king said unto him, Go in peace. So he arose, and went to Hebron. But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, AS SOON AS YE HEAR THE SOUND OF THE TRUMPET, THEN YE SHALL SAY, ABSALOM REIGNETH in Hebron.

			2 Samuel 15:7-10

			2.	ABSALOM - UNDERSTANDS THINGS DIFFERENTLY:

			And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s counsellor, from his city, even from Giloh, while he was offered sacrifices. And THE CONSPIRACY WAS STRONG; for the people increased continually with Absalom. And there came a messenger to David, saying, “The hearts of the men of Israel are with Absalom.”

			2 Samuel 15:12-13

				Absalom was a bizarre prince and son! He was a son who could engage in a conspiracy against his own father. Borderline Personality Disorder is the most common personality disorder around. In other words, it is the most common type of bizarre personality that you could encounter. Therefore, it is the most common type of bizarre personality someone could marry. It is also the most common type of bizarre personality an employee could have. It is also the most common type of bizarre personality that could become a pastor or a bishop. This type of personality disorder leads to weird sons, daughters, employees, pastors and bishops.

			3.	ABSALOM - THINKS DIFFERENTLY: Absalom’s views were different from the views of the people in town. Most of the people in town loved David and accepted him as their king. Not so with Absalom! Absalom saw something wrong with David’s leadership.

				Borderline Personality Disorder thinks differently from other people. The pattern of thinking in a Borderline Personality Disorder is uneasy and disturbed. The person with this disorder has views that are at variance with everyone else.

			And Absalom rose up early, and stood beside the way of the gate: and it was so, that when any man that had a controversy came to the king for judgment, then Absalom called unto him, and said, Of what city art thou? And he said, Thy servant is of one of the tribes of Israel. And Absalom said unto him, SEE, THY MATTERS ARE GOOD AND RIGHT; but there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee. Absalom said moreover, OH THAT I WERE MADE JUDGE IN THE LAND, that every man which hath any suit or cause might come unto me, and I would do him justice!

			2 Samuel 15:2-4

			4.	ABSALOM - UNDERSTAND THINGS DIFFERENTLY:

				Borderline Personality Disorder feels, understands and perceives everything differently from other people, giving rise to conflicts and bizarre relationships. When everyone understands the issue, the person with Borderline Personality Disorder does not understand it. David forgave Absalom for killing his brother Amnon and accepted him back in town.

			The king said to Joab, “Very well, I will do it. GO, BRING BACK THE YOUNG MAN ABSALOM.” Joab fell with his face to the ground to pay him honor, and he blessed the king. Joab said, “Today your servant knows that he has found favor in your eyes, my lord the king, because the king has granted his servant’s request.” Then Joab went to Geshur and brought Absalom back to Jerusalem.

			2 Samuel 14:21-23 (NIV)

				However, as a person with Borderline Personality Disorder, Absalom did not live his life in gratitude towards his father but saw his father’s mercy and love as an opportunity to conspire against him and seize the throne.

				A person with borderline personality understands everything differently. Absalom understood the forgiveness and the love in a different way. He took the love and forgiveness as an opportunity to overthrow his father.

				Do you have anybody who works in your organization like that? Do you have a relative or family member who always understands love, kindness and goodness in the wrong way? Do you know anyone who took the kindness of an organisation as an opportunity to fight against it and overthrow it?

			5.	ABSALOM - FEAR OF BEING DISMISSED:

			And Absalom, and all the people the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him. And it came to pass, when Hushai the Archite, David’s friend, was come unto Absalom, that Hushai said unto Absalom, God save the king, God save the king. And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? why wentest thou not with thy friend? And Hushai said unto Absalom, Nay; but whom the LORD, and this people, and all the men of Israel, choose, his will I be, and with him will I abide. And again, whom should I serve? should I not serve in the presence of his son? as I have served in thy father’s presence, so will I be in thy presence.

			Then said Absalom to Ahithophel, Give counsel among you what we shall do.

			And Ahithophel said to Absalom, Go in unto thy father’s concubines, which he hath left to keep the house; and all Israel shall hear that thou art abhorred of thy father: then shall the hands of all that are with thee be strong. So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house; and ABSALOM WENT IN UNTO HIS FATHER’S CONCUBINES IN THE SIGHT OF ALL ISRAEL.

			2 Samuel 16: 15-22

				Absalom was insecure from the moment he proclaimed himself king. He was afraid that he would lose his newfound position. He did everything to secure himself, including sleeping with his father’s wives. He felt that taking such a step would allay his fears of losing his position and being abandoned by the nation, Israel. Absalom, because he was afraid, sent an entire army to fight against the “old” man David. Absalom thought that his frail old father would appear out of nowhere and finish him off. Such is the fear of a person with Borderline Personality Disorder!

				They are constantly afraid of losing their place because they know that they are not doing the right thing. Borderline Personality Disorder is afraid of being abandoned. What does this mean? Borderline Personality Disorder is afraid of being dismissed from his job. It is not normal to live in constant fear of being dismissed or set aside. Borderline personalities are in constant fear that they will be dumped or pushed away for some reason. I have encountered a number of employees who lived in constant fear of being dismissed. Obviously, they were deviants and were not working well.

			6.	ABSALOM - INTENSE CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS:

			And Absalom her brother said unto her, Hath Amnon thy brother been with thee? but hold now thy peace, my sister: he is thy brother; regard not this thing. SO TAMAR REMAINED DESOLATE IN HER BROTHER ABSALOM’S HOUSE …. And Absalom spake unto his brother Amnon neither good nor bad: for ABSALOM HATED AMNON, because he had forced his sister Tamar.

			2 Samuel 13:20-22

				Borderline personalities have intense, close and dependent relationships. A borderline personality is actually insecure. They may have uncontrollable anger, fear, anxiety, hatred, sadness and love.

				Absalom had great love for his sister, Tamar. Absalom also had great hatred for his brother Amnon. Just like every borderline personality, he was over-emotional, possessive and filled with uncontrollable anger and hatred. These mood swings of a borderline personality, change frequently and suddenly and may last a few hours or a few days. Absalom had a close relationship with his father, David. He is one of the sons that we hear about and know about. King David loved him and had such a close relationship with him that he could not imagine Absalom being killed, even though Absalom was trying to kill David. He asked the people to be very gentle with his son, Absalom.

			And the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, DEAL GENTLY FOR MY SAKE WITH THE YOUNG MAN, EVEN WITH ABSALOM. And all the people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning Absalom.

			2 Samuel 18:5

			7.	ABSALOM - UNSTABLE FRIENDSHIPS:

				Borderline Personality Disorder has close and intense relationships, which are also unstable. These close relationships can change suddenly. They have relationships with family and friends and employment relationships that swing from very close to extreme anger. A paranoid Borderline Personality Disorder can be suspicious of everyone around them, and believe there are conspiracies to block their careers at work. Borderline personalities can carry grudges for years, and try to punish their targets of blame.

			Absalom commanded his servants, saying, “See now, when Amnon’s heart is merry with wine, and when I say to you, ‘Strike Amnon,’ then put him to death. Do not fear; have not I myself commanded you? Be courageous and be valiant.” The servants of Absalom did to Amnon just as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king’s sons arose and each mounted his mule and fled.

			2 Samuel 13:28-29 (NASB)

				Absalom carried grudges for years. His brother, Amnon, raped Tamar and he carried a grudge against him for years. Two full years after the incident, Absalom murdered Amnon. He was a man without forgiveness. A man of intense, but unstable, relationships! He had a close relationship with his sister and with his father, but each of these relationships turned around overnight and became a source of confusion and conflict.

			8.	ABSALOM - BLACK AND WHITE THINKING:

				People with Borderline Personality Disorder tend to change their views of others abruptly and dramatically. Do you know anybody like that? Absalom loved his father, David, but also grew to hate him. Do you know anybody like that? The Bible says whoever hates his father is a murderer. Absalom is one of the sons in history who tried to murder his own father. Today, it is love and tomorrow it will be hate! Do you know anybody like that? Absalom was a classic example of someone who had a love relationship become a hate relationship. He said, “I love you.” And then he said, “I hate you with all my heart. I hate everything you stand for.”

			Absalom commanded his servants, saying, “See now, when Amnon’s heart is merry with wine, and when I say to you, ‘Strike Amnon,’ then put him to death. Do not fear; have not I myself commanded you? Be courageous and be valiant.” The servants of Absalom did to Amnon just as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king’s sons arose and each mounted his mule and fled.

			2 Samuel 13:28-29 (NASB)

			9.	ABSALOM - EXTREME ANGER AND EMOTIONAL SWINGS:

				Borderline Personality Disorder have inappropriate, dangerous and explosive anger. The anger of a person with a Borderline Personality Disorder can be dangerous to his personal life, to his reputation and to his employment. Therapists and lawyers have noted that many frivolous and vexatious cases in labour courts, employment courts and family courts are brought there by people with Borderline Personality Disorders. Many people who fight vexatious cases in court are simply contentious personalities with a Borderline Personality Disorder. Their personality disorder causes them to hover on the border of madness.

				Absalom’s extreme emotional swings helped to confirm his madness and his Borderline Personality Disorder. On one end, he was an emotional protector of his sister who had been violated. On the other end, he was so angry with his brother, Amnon, that he murdered him when the opportunity presented itself. Absalom controlled his emotions for two years but his extreme anger and hatred for his brother caused him to become a murderer of his brother and an attempted murderer of his own father!

			And Absalom spake unto his brother Amnon neither good nor bad: for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar. And it came to pass after two full years, that Absalom had sheepshearers in Baalhazor, which is beside Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the king’s sons…. Now Absalom had commanded his servants, saying, Mark ye now when Amnon’s heart is merry with wine, and when I say unto you, Smite Amnon; then kill him, fear not: have not I commanded you? be courageous, and be valiant.

			2 Samuel 13:22-23, 28

			10.	ABSALOM - IMPULSIVE:

				Absalom was impulsive. It was this impulsive and emotional reaction that made him forsake Ahithophel and take Hushai the Archite as his advisor. The conspiracy to overthrow David had been planned with Ahithophel. Hushai was not part of the plan but Absalom impulsively set Ahithophel aside and took Hushai the Archite as his lead counsellor. This impulsive decision cost Absalom his life. It is clear from all these examples that Absalom fulfils the picture of an irrational and impulsive Borderline Personality Disorder patient.

			 Therefore I counsel that all Israel be generally gathered unto thee, from Dan even to Beersheba, as the sand that is by the sea for multitude; and that thou go to battle in thine own person. So shall we come upon him in some place where he shall be found, and we will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground: and of him and of all the men that are with him there shall not be left so much as one. Moreover, if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city, and we will draw it into the river, until there be not one small stone found there. And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, THE COUNSEL OF HUSHAI THE ARCHITE IS BETTER THAN THE COUNSEL OF AHITHOPHEL. For the LORD had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the intent that the LORD might bring evil upon Absalom.

			2 Samuel 17:11-14





CHAPTER 14




Lucifer: Delusional Disorder




			For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north: I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the most High. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.

			Isaiah 14:13-15

			A Delusional Disorder is a type of madness which has as its main symptom the presence of one or more delusions. A delusion is an unshakable belief in something that is not true. When a person has a delusion, everyone else knows that what he believes is false. There are delusions in schizophrenia. However, in the condition called “Delusional Disorder”, there are no other symptoms apart from the presence of these delusions.

			A delusional person believes things that couldn’t possibly be true. For instance, a person with a Delusional Disorder may be convinced that the air conditioner is controlling his thoughts. Delusional comes from a Latin word meaning “deceiving.” So delusional thinking is deceiving yourself by believing outrageous things.

			Every single act that is recorded about Lucifer reeks of the logic of madness, absurdity, irrationality, insanity, lunacy, stupidity, psychosis, foolishness, craziness, senselessness and idiocy. Satan exhibited completely irrational and inexplicable behaviour when he rose up to attack God and try to replace the maker of the universe with himself. He must have been filled with delusions to think that he could attack God. Only a Delusional Disorder could have made Lucifer do what he did.

			1.	DELUSIONS OF LUCIFER: ATTACKING GOD

			Lucifer had to deceive himself in order to build up the courage to attack God. Lucifer must have had many delusions of grandeur. A delusion of grandeur is a delusion that you are much greater, more powerful and more influential than you really are. A delusion of grandeur is a false or unusual belief about one’s power, wealth, talents, and traits. A person may believe, for instance, that they are famous, that they belong to the royal family or that they can end a world war, or that they are immortal!!

			I once saw a nation which had two fighter planes parked at the airport, attempting to fight with a nation that had thousands of planes. In one raid, the two fighter planes were put out of use. They never took to the skies. You have to assess your enemy very well and decide whether you can fight him or not.

			It is only a mad man who will go out and fight with someone who is far superior to him. It must have been some kind of Delusional Disorder working in Lucifer’s mind for him to think he could ascend God’s throne and replace God.

			There are pastors all over the world who operate on social media thinking that they can destroy God’s church.

			There are pastors’ wives who think that they can destroy their husbands by divorcing them or speaking out against them.

			2.	DELUSIONS OF LUCIFER: REPLACING GOD

			Lucifer must have had severe psychosis with delusions of grandeur. It is no wonder that he transmits to other Luciferian disciples delusions of grandeur and offers them things that they will never have. In psychiatry, we see how delusions affect people. 11A patient who has fictitious beliefs about his or her power or authority may believe himself or herself to be a ruling monarch who deserves to be treated like royalty.11 Some patients believe they are God. Someone with delusions can believe she is the Queen of England! Someone with delusions can believe that he is a president’s son! Someone with delusions can believe that he is a famous rock star or movie star! Some people with delusions can believe that they are skilled athletes or great inventors!

			According to psychiatric teaching, grandiose-type symptoms include exaggerated beliefs of self-worth, power, knowledge, identity and exceptional relationship to a deity or famous person. Obviously, Lucifer had grandiose delusions in which he thought his self-worth, his power, his knowledge and his relationship with God could elevate him to the point where he could replace God himself.

			Grandiose delusions are a characteristic of deceived men who launch out to fight against God’s work. I have encountered many men who have had a delusion that they were greater than they actually are. Most of them fell to the ground like ripe mangoes off a tree and rotted on the ground only to be eaten by insects and animals. How the proud are fallen!

			Such delusions are maintained by auditory hallucinations, in which they hear voices which advise the patient that they are something great.

			A person with delusions may have what is called confabulations, when, for example, the patient can give a detailed description of their coronation or their wedding with the king. Grandiose delusions can be a part of fantastic hallucinosis in which all forms of hallucinations occur.

			3.	DELUSIONS OF LUCIFER: FORGETTING THAT HE WAS CREATED

			Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; AND I HAVE SET THEE SO: thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.

			Ezekiel 28:14

			Lucifer forgot that he was created by God and appointed into his position. Lucifer was suffering from delusions of grandeur. It is amazing that anyone could forget something as basic as that, but it does happen. We can only conclude that there was something mentally wrong with Lucifer. Such severe memory loss occurs in dementia, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and other severe psychoses. A delusional person can be extremely dangerous and even become a danger to themselves.

			4.	DELUSIONS OF LUCIFER: SLANDER

			And there was given unto him A MOUTH SPEAKING GREAT THINGS AND BLASPHEMIES; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months. And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.

			Revelation 13:5-6

			Many people are deceived into thinking that their slander and their smear campaign will destroy the work of God. Lucifer rose up to slander Almighty God! Demons produce the disorganized speech of schizophrenia. Demons produce the classical symptoms of disorganized thinking, disorganized speech and disorganized behaviour.

			People with schizophrenia say many things and join sentences together, which do not make sense. Such are the fantastic hallucinations, delusions and confabulations of Lucifer and his agents. Lucifer went up and down with his trade of stories and slander, seeking to bring down Almighty God.

			Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the MULTITUDE OF THINE INIQUITIES, BY THE INIQUITY OF THY TRAFFICK; therefore will I bring forth a fire from the midst of thee, it shall devour thee, and I will bring thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all them that behold thee.

			Ezekiel 28:18

			The multitude of his traffic and trade in slanderous stories are never to be forgotten. Do not allow people who are filled with the spirit of Lucifer to go up and down trading stories, lies and destroying the church.

			Thou shalt not go UP AND DOWN AS A TALEBEARER among thy people: neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbour: I am the Lord.

			Leviticus 19:16

			5.	DELUSIONS OF LUCIFER: SELF DESTRUCTION

			By the multitude of thy merchandise they have filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned: therefore I will cast thee as profane out of the mountain of God: and I will destroy thee, O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire. Thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty, thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness: I will cast thee to the ground, I will lay thee before kings, that they may behold thee. Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude of thine iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick; THEREFORE WILL I BRING FORTH A FIRE FROM THE MIDST OF THEE, IT SHALL DEVOUR THEE, AND I WILL BRING THEE TO ASHES UPON THE EARTH IN THE SIGHT OF ALL THEM THAT BEHOLD THEE.

			Ezekiel 28:16-18

			Lucifer destroyed himself! Many ministers destroy themselves! Many ministers destroy themselves and destroy the beautiful call on their lives.

			It is only a mad man that will take a fire and burn down his life and ministry. Self-destruction, suicide and madness are all signs of the presence of Lucifer and his madness and delusions.

			Lucifer brought on himself a fire that he generated. Lucifer was brought down to ashes by his own behaviour.

			Demons make people suicidal and tell them to destroy themselves and end their lives. Suicide is a common symptom of depression and can occur in other mental conditions such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.





CHAPTER 15




Understanding Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder




			What is Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder?

			Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder is a reaction that some people have when they experience a traumatic event like a hurt or an offence. The event may or may not be a life-threatening one.

			It is normal to feel afraid after a traumatic experience. It is your body’s way of protecting itself from further harm. With time, most people recover from the effects of the trauma, the hurts and the offence.

			People with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder do not feel better and do not recover from the hurts and offence!

			They feel stressed and frightened and affected long after the event is over!

			 It is not understood why some people are more prone to a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. It is not understood why some people develop an unusual response to offence and hurt. The symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can cause significant problems in social life and in relationships. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can even affect your normal daily tasks as well as your work.

			Without treatment, the symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder are likely to worsen. People with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder may develop severe anxiety, anger and aggression. There is also the possibility of depression and other serious outcomes such as suicide.

			1.	A Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder is a mental disorder that happens to someone after the person experiences a traumatic event, causing them to feel fearful, shocked or helpless.

			2.	A Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can have long-term effects including difficulty in sleeping, anxiety and flashbacks.

			3.	A Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder patient will have bad thoughts and bad memories reoccurring, even though the danger has passed.

			4.	A Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can disrupt a person’s life for many years.

			5.	Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can happen because of events like rape, personal assaults, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, sexual abuse, accidents, wars, crimes, fires, the death of a loved one or any kind of abuse.

			6.	A person experiences symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder within three months of the event, but it can also start later.

			7.	The first line of symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder are nightmares, flashbacks and fearful thoughts. There are recurrent, unwanted distressing memories of the traumatic event. The person may relive the traumatic event as if it were happening again (flashbacks). There may be dreams or nightmares about the traumatic event. There may be a reaction to something that reminds the patient of the traumatic event.

			8.	A second set of symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder are avoidance symptoms in which the person refuses to think or even discuss the event that happened. The patient may begin to avoid people, activities or situations that remind the person of the event.

			9.	A third set of symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can affect the mood of the person. The individual may become negative, hopeless, detached, estranged, emotionally numb, guilty, depressed, anxious, and even unable to remember some aspects of the event.

			10.	A fourth set of symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder are reactionary symptoms. They include being easily startled, being irritable, having angry outbursts and always being on guard for possible dangers. The patient may develop severe anxiety, anger and aggression. Depression and other serious outcomes such as suicide are also possible.





CHAPTER 16




Those Who Are Offended: Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder




			Woe unto the world because of offences! for it must needs be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh!

			Matthew 18:7

			It is important to keep a sweet spirit at all times. We are deep in a world, which is full of hurtful and painful things. You do not have to stay here for long before you get offended by someone.

			Many people who attend weddings have little hope for the couple as they walk down the aisle. They are just waiting for the first phone call which announces the beginning of troubles, discouragement and despair in the relationship.

			Jesus warned us that we would not be able to live in this world without getting offended. There are events that can hurt you so much that your life will be altered. There are hurtful things that people do that permanently damage relationships. These terrible hurts can give rise to the Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.

			Over the years, I have seen people respond differently to hurts and offences. I have also seen that different things offend different people. Some people cannot stand any form of public discussion about themselves. Some people do not like public discussions because the meetings expose and embarrass them.

			Offences Turn People into Mad Men

			And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another.

			Matthew 24:10

			1.	Herod is offended and develops a mental disorder

			 But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his brother Philip’s wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done, Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.

			Luke 3:19-20

			Herod, the king turned into a mad man because he was rebuked by God’s prophet. Herod went as far as attacking God’s prophet and imprisoning him because he was rebuked. Herod metamorphosed into a killer because he was rebuked about his marriage. Jesus said that John the Baptist was the greatest person to be born of a woman. Herod became the killer of the greatest person ever born of a woman! That is true madness!

			Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women THERE HATH NOT RISEN A GREATER THAN JOHN THE BAPTIST: notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.

			Matthew 11:11

			It is not understood why some people are more prone to a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder or to develop an unusual response to offence and hurt. Without treatment, the symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder are likely to worsen.

			2.	Herod’s wife is offended and develops a Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder

			For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in prison for Herodias’ sake, his brother Philip’s wife. For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. And when he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet. But when Herod’s birthday was kept, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod. Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask. And she, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist’s head in a charger.

			Matthew 14:3-8

			Herod’s wife was a regular woman having a regular affair. There are many women that have love affairs. However, when Herod’s wife was rebuked by John the Baptist, she was really offended and turned into a monstruous killer.

			This over-reaction to a rebuke is a strong reminder of the reality of the Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. A Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can affect an individual until he becomes mentally ill. A soldier suffering from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder can become depressed, suicidal and harmful to others. Herod’s wife became harmful to herself and to John the Baptist, just because he had spoken the truth to her.

			Four Symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder in Herod’s Wife

			First of all, Herod’s wife went through nightmares, flashbacks and fearful thoughts of John the Baptist’s strong preaching which highlighted her evil ways. She had recurrent, unwanted distressing memories of the church service in which her sin was mentioned. Each time Herod’s wife thought of John the Baptist, she relived the fear that came into her heart when the fact that she was a husband-thief was brought out.

			Then, Herod’s wife went through what is called avoidance symptoms. She refused to think or even discuss what John the Baptist had said. She would now avoid John the Baptist at all costs or anything that reminded her of him.

			The third set of symptoms affected Herod’s wife’s mood. She became negative, hopeless, detached, estranged, emotionally numb, guilty, depressed and anxious about the existence of this young preacher in town. This is probably when she asked her husband to arrest him.

			The fourth set of symptoms of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder was reactionary and this is when Herod’s wife initiated the execution and cutting off of the head of John the Baptist. Aggression is a symptom of Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.

			3.	The Pharisees are offended and become murderers

			Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone. Ye blind guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess.

			Matthew 23:23-25

			An offence or a rebuke at a meeting is not supposed to turn you into something that has deviated grotesquely from the normal expected form. Pharisees were religious men. Pharisees were supposed to be men of love, men of kindness and men with a good heart. As Jesus preached the truth to them, they were offended and reacted very badly. They became men of treachery, men of hatred, full of envy and murder. They ended up murdering Jesus Christ, the holy Son of God because they were offended. Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder is an abnormal response to correction and rebukes.

			It is normal to feel disturbed and afraid after a traumatic experience. This is your body’s way of protecting itself from further harm. With time, most people recover from the effects of trauma and offence. But people with Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder do not feel better and do not recover from the hurts and offence. They feel stressed, frightened and affected long after the event is over! Watch out for those who are reacting continuously and endlessly to offences. Many of such people are going mad!





CHAPTER 17




Understanding Personality Disorders




			Personality disorders are conditions in which people differ significantly from others in the way they think, perceive, understand things and relate with others. A person with a personality disorder will have a different way of thinking, acting and believing which affects relationships with others and lasts over time.

			Personality disorders are patterns of behaviour that differ significantly from what is expected. For instance, the way of thinking about oneself or the way of reacting emotionally, or the way of relating with other people, or the way of controlling your behaviour must differ significantly and remain so for a long time, for you to be classified as someone with a personality disorder.

			 Some of the common personality disorders are borderline personality disorder, anti-social personality disorder, avoidant personality disorder, histrionic personality disorder, obsessive compulsive personality disorder, paranoid personality disorder and narcissistic personality disorder.

			1.	Anti-Social Personality Disorder is when a harmful person does not care about how others feel. Such people can become wicked criminals.

			2.	Avoidant Personality Disorder has a pattern of extreme shyness and extreme sensitivity to criticism.

			3.	Borderline Personality Disorder has a pattern of unstable and tumultuous relationships.

			4.	Dependent Personality Disorder is when someone needs to be taken care of, unnecessarily. Such a person is usually clingy.

			5.	Histrionic Personality Disorder is when a person seeks attention and is overly emotional.

			6.	Narcissistic Personality Disorder is when someone is self-centred and arrogant and needs a lot of admiration. Such people become dictators and wicked leaders.

			7.	Obsessive Compulsive Personality Disorder is when someone is pre-occupied with orderliness, perfection and control. It is what we would call a melancholy person.

			8.	Paranoid Personality Disorder is when someone has a pattern of being suspicious and accusative.

			9.	A Schizoid Personality Disorder is when someone is detached and expresses little emotion.

			10.	Schizotypal Personality Disorder is when someone is eccentric, having odd beliefs and a peculiar behaviour.





CHAPTER 18




Understanding Multiple Personality Disorder




			1.	Multiple Personality Disorder has actually been renamed as Dissociative Identity Disorder.

			2.	It is a condition in which two or more distinct identifiable and recognizable personalities are seen in the same person.

			3.	There is the existence of two or more distinct personalities within one individual.

			4.	Only one distinct personality is evident at each point in time.

			5.	Each personality has its own behavioural patterns and each personality takes control at a given time.

			6.	The personality is unable to recall events and remember personal information in a way that is inconsistent with ordinary forgetting.

			 7.	These characteristics of a person with multiple personality disorder disrupt significantly and affect personal, family, social and other relationships.

			8.	In some cultures, the experience of multiple personalities is called “Possession”.

			Cases of Multiple Personality Disorder

				Case 1:

				A person with Multiple Personality Disorder could act like a great man of God, a powerful preacher, preaching and breathing holiness, fire and brimstone from heaven. And then when the second identity kicks in he could be acting like a drug dealer in a prostitutes’ den, enjoying multiple women in a smoke-filled cabin.

				Case 2:

				A person could act as an innocent untouched virgin, untainted with the life of the world in one setting and then act as a well-experienced sexually charged and experienced prostitute when she takes on her other identity.

				Case 3:

				A thirty-year old woman reported the presence of unusual experiences, dreams, since she was five years old. The patient reported that for twelve months, she was having episodes in which a second self, took charge of her actions. This lady would then speak with a male voice, become aggressive and require several people to contain her desire for destruction. After three months of follow up and accepting her unusual experiences and trances as normal, she had significant improvement.

				Case 4:

				Another example is of a fifty-five-year-old lady who presented at the hospital with a history of multiple personalities, which appear when she is under emotional stress or under the influence of a drug. The multiple personalities that appeared at different times in this lady were the personality of a seven-year-old child, a personality that would behave like a teenager, a personality that would behave like a male person, and the personality of her fifty-five-year-old person.

				This lady reported that she had been constantly dominated by her alternative personalities and became aware of their existence when people around her informed her.

				One of her personalities behaved like a seven-year-old child and would show the interest and choices of a seven-year-old, including becoming moody or arrogant. While in this state, she could hurt herself and have weeping spells if her wants were not met.

				One of her personalities that behaved like a teenager would cause her to dress like a teenager and start smoking, drinking and fighting.

				One of her personalities that behaved like a man made her change her voice and her behaviour. She would dress like a man and show attraction to females, including sexual behaviour.

				One of her personalities was that of a fifty-five-year-old lady. That was her default personality.

				She reported that stressful situations and substance abuse would aggravate the disintegration of her personality to bring out one of the personalities. Under the influence of stress and substances like marijuana, her personality would split into different personalities.





CHAPTER 19




Those Who Pretend: Multiple Personality Disorder




			A double minded man is unstable in all his ways.

			James 1:8

	 			A double minded man is someone who has two ways of thinking. This causes instability in the person. These two patterns of thinking, one pure and the other impure, lead to unstable relationships. The two minds of a person may lead to a multiple personality: someone with two distinct personalities, one righteous and one full of wickedness. Jesus had a lot to say to people who were living in this way. They seemed to have two different extreme personalities; one beautiful outward personality and one horrible unclean personality.

			Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men’s bones, and of all uncleanness. Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.

			Matthew 23:27-28

			Traitors and treacherous people seem sometimes to have a Multiple Personality Disorder. This is because there seems to be the existence of two or more distinct personalities within one individual. Only one distinct personality is evident at each point in time and to a particular group of people. People who encounter someone with multiple personality disorder are often shocked to discover that the person has another side to him.

			Indeed, some pretenders may not meet the criteria for the diagnosis of multiple personality disorder. However, they certainly do show some traits of having two characters.

			1.	Delilah, the pretender, seemed to have multiple personalities.

			After this it came about that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah. The lords of the Philistines came up to her and said to her, “Entice him, and see where his great strength lies and how we may overpower him that we may bind him to afflict him. Then we will each give you eleven hundred pieces of silver.” So Delilah said to Samson, “Please tell me where your great strength is and how you may be bound to afflict you…. When Delilah saw that he had told her all that was in his heart, she sent and called the lords of the Philistines, saying, “Come up once more, for he has told me all that is in his heart.” Then the lords of the Philistines came up to her and brought the money in their hands. She made him sleep on her knees, and called for a man and had him shave off the seven locks of his hair. Then she began to afflict him, and his strength left him. She said, “The Philistines are upon you, Samson!” And he awoke from his sleep and said, “I will go out as at other times and shake myself free.” But he did not know that the LORD had departed from him.”

			Judges 16: 4-6, 18-20 (NASB)

			Delilah seemed to be a loving girlfriend to Samson. Samson really liked her. She comforted him, she relaxed him and she made him feel good. Yet, on the other hand, she was a businesswoman looking for eleven hundred pieces of silver. She actually hated him! She was willing to destroy Samson for a few pieces of silver. Yet, when she related with Samson, he was so impressed, aroused and enchanted by her softness, her comforts and her delights.

			2.	Judas, the pretender, seemed to have multiple personalities.

			And Satan entered into Judas who was called Iscariot, belonging to the number of the twelve. And he went away and discussed with the chief priests and officers how he might betray Him to them. They were glad and agreed to give him money. So he consented, and began seeking a good opportunity to betray Him to them apart from the crowd…. “When He rose from prayer, He came to the disciples and found them sleeping from sorrow, and said to them, “Why are you sleeping? Get up and pray that you may not enter into temptation.” While He was still speaking, behold, a crowd came, and the one called Judas, one of the twelve, was preceding them; and he approached Jesus to kiss Him. But Jesus said to him, “Judas, are you betraying the Son of Man with a kiss?

			Luke 22:3-6, 45-48 (NASB)

			In one of his personalities, Judas was a faithful disciple called to the apostolic ministry. He was a man of vision who was going to send the gospel to the ends of the world. This personality was a man of great integrity who would not touch any of God’s money.

			Right on the other hand, he seemed to have another personality where he was a businessman, very far from being an apostle. In this other personality, he loved money and was actually a thief. No one could have imagined that Jesus’ top disciple was into stealing, into business and into shady deals.

			In the good personality, he had meetings with other apostles and Jesus Christ the Saviour of the world. But on the other hand, he had meetings with shady characters. These two personalities seemed to be present and take charge at different times.

			Even on the night of the betrayal, he showed the sweet personality when he kissed Jesus. Then he showed the treacherous wickedness when he signalled the men with swords and weapons to capture Jesus. What a contrast! What a man of multiple personalities! One personality so sweet and another personality so wicked!

			3.	Hushai the Archite was a classic pretender.

			And it came to pass, when Hushai the Archite, David’s friend, was come unto Absalom, that Hushai said unto Absalom, God save the king, God save the king. And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? why wentest thou not with thy friend? And Hushai said unto Absalom, Nay; but whom the LORD, and this people, and all the men of Israel, choose, his will I be, and with him will I abide. And again, whom should I serve? should I not serve in the presence of his son? as I have served in thy father’s presence, so will I be in thy presence.

			2 Samuel 16:16-19

			Hushai pretended to give good advice to Absalom. He claimed he was fully behind Absalom. In Hushai’s speech, he explained everything he did with good reasons. But on the other hand, Hushai was actually a very loyal person working for King David. One personality of Hushai was a supporter of Absalom but the other personality of Hushai was a supporter of his enemy.

			4.	Jael was an amazing pretender.

			Now Sisera fled away on foot to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite, for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite. Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said to him, “Turn aside, my master, turn aside to me! Do not be afraid.” And he turned aside to her into the tent, and she covered him with a rug. He said to her, “Please give me a little water to drink, for I am thirsty.” So she opened a bottle of milk and gave him a drink; then she covered him. He said to her, “Stand in the doorway of the tent, and it shall be if anyone comes and inquires of you, and says, ‘Is there anyone here?’ that you shall say, ‘No.’” But Jael, Heber’s wife, took a tent peg and seized a hammer in her hand, and went secretly to him and drove the peg into his temple, and it went through into the ground; for he was sound asleep and exhausted. So he died.

			Judges 4:17-21 (NASB)

			Jael seemed to have two personalities. Imagine it. She deceived Sisera, the commander of the Canaanite army. She welcomed him into her tent. She comforted him and reassured him. She told him not to be afraid. She gave him milk to drink. She covered him with a blanket. She cuddled him and made him fall asleep.

			Right on the other hand, there was another personality in Jael. She was a hard woman who could kill a man. As she lay by him, cuddling him, comforting him and giving him the blanket, she noticed that he had fallen asleep. She could hear it from his breathing. Her second personality took over and she became an aggressive killer. She took a nail, placed it on his head and struck a nail into the man who thought her to be a loving, comforting, warm, caring, caressing, hugging, affectionate, tender and sympathetic woman. The blood spurted out from his head like a fountain. The whole tent was filled with Sisera’s blood. His skull was broken open and his brains spilled out into this killer’s tent. Remember, she had switched personalities from a lover to a killer.

			Are there two personalities in you?





CHAPTER 20




Those Who Are Proud: Contentious Personalities




			Only by pride cometh CONTENTION: but with the well advised is wisdom.

			Proverbs 13:10

			A contentious personality must be kept out of your leadership. Do not employ contentious personalities. You will have a lot of strife. Contention and conflict come out of pride. We can therefore conclude that every contentious personality is someone who is steeped in pride. The person may be a humble looking lady but her manner of thinking and living lead to continuous conflict. He may be an assistant pastor but his manner of speaking and living lead to conflict. All the proud people of the Bible were high conflict personalities.

			Pride is an evil spirit but is also the character of a High Conflict Personality in display. A High Conflict Personality is always one of the personality disorders that lead to conflict.

			A High Conflict Personality creates contention all the time. Marriage to a High Conflict Personality will be a marriage of continuous conflict. Any of the personality disorders can have increased conflict and contention. This is because a person with a personality disorder does not think, act or feel the same way that everyone else does. Even a quiet, shy, avoidant personality can engender conflict.

			Those who are proud (contentious personalities) must be kept at a distance. When you draw high conflict personalities into your inner circle, you may live to regret it. Some people must never be employed!

			High conflict personalities must not be employed into full time ministry. How would you know that someone is a High Conflict Personality? Often, contentious people have manifested their traits for many years.

			Personality disorders are things that last for a long time. People with personality disorders rarely change. You will find that they have a history of contention and conflict from primary school, secondary school or the university. They have been at the centre of every controversy that has happened in their past.

			Contentious personalities have been at the centre of controversies and contention in different churches and fellowships that they have ever belonged to.

			High Conflict Personalities of the Bible

			1.	THOSE WHO ARE PROUD - LUCIFER: The primary example of those who are proud is Lucifer. He brought about all the contention and conflict in heaven.

				For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north: I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the most High.

			Isaiah 14:13-14

			2.	THOSE WHO ARE PROUD - VASHTI: Vashti is another example of those who are proud. She brought about conflict to the royal family of King Ahasuerus. No woman in the royal family had probably ever behaved the way she was behaving. You are a High Conflict Personality when you do not obey your husband’s wishes.

				What shall we do unto the queen Vashti according to law, because she hath not performed the commandment of the king Ahasuerus by the chamberlains?

			Esther 1:15

			3.	THOSE WHO ARE PROUD - KORAH: Korah is another example of those who are proud. Korah brought conflict between Moses and hundreds of the Israelites.

				Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men: And they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown: And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the LORD is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the LORD?”

			Numbers 16:1-3

			4.	THOSE WHO ARE PROUD - REHOBOAM: Rehoboam is an example of those who are proud. He was puffed up when he was a newly appointed ruler and did not respect his elders. He got into a conflict with the elders on the very first day of office.

				And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the old men’s counsel that they gave him; And spake to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, and I will add to your yoke: my father also chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.

			1 Kings 12:13-14

			5.	THOSE WHO ARE PROUD - NEBUCHADNEZZAR: Nebuchadnezzar got into conflict with the prophet, Daniel, when Daniel refused to obey him. His pride led to his downfall and his destruction.

				Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and break off thy sins by righteousness, and thine iniquities by shewing mercy to the poor; if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquillity.

			Daniel 4:27

			6.	THOSE WHO ARE PROUD - PHARAOH: Pharaoh was another High Conflict Personality. His arrogant responses to Moses revealed pride and a highly contentious personality.

				And afterward Moses and Aaron went in, and told Pharaoh, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness. And Pharaoh said, Who is the LORD, that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I know not the LORD, neither will I let Israel go.

			Exodus 5:1-2

			Contentious Personalities

			(Those Who Are Proud)

			1.	Contentious personalities GET INTO CONFLICT MORE than the average person. Such people have marriages that are in constant turmoil.

			2.	Contentious personalities BLAME OTHERS CONSTANTLY.

			3.	Contentious personalities HAVE A VICTIM MENTALITY. 12Having a victim mentality helps high conflict people give themselves valid excuses for being quarrelsome. It’s always the other person’s fault. They’re the victims. They don’t see how they might have contributed to the issue.12

			4.	Contentious personalities CONSIDER QUARRELS TO BE A NORMAL THING. They say things like, “Every marriage has challenges. All relationships have challenges that we have to work through. Conflicts always happen in every relationship.”

			5.	Contentious personalities CANNOT COMMUNICATE PROPERLY. They will not listen to what the other person is saying. They may not allow the other person to speak.

			6.	Contentious personalities LACK SELF-AWARENESS AND SELF-REFLECTION. They lack insight into their own behaviour and do not know how much conflict and contention they cause. They may never know how much pain and trouble they cause.

			7.	Contentious personalities are aggressive and HUNGRY FOR POWER. In marriage, a seemingly unassuming wife may actually be dissatisfied with the fact that she has to submit to and be led her man.

			8.	Contentious personalities are often INSECURE AND FEARFUL. You will be surprised how insecure people generate contention and conflict.

			9.	Contentious personalities are often people who are OFFENDED about something.

			10.	Contentious personalities must be KEPT AT A DISTANCE. When you draw high conflict personalities into your inner circle, you may live to regret it. Do not employ contentious personalities!





CHAPTER 21




Understanding Depression




			Symptoms of Depression

			1.	A Lowered mood: A person with depression may express excessive sadness, hopelessness and lack of excitement. Hopelessness is the hallmark of depression. Some people with depression feel hopeless all or most of the time. Some people who are depressed feel that they are worthless. Others feel that everything is an effort all the time.

			2.	Reduced communication: People who are depressed feel as if it is very difficult to think and speak.

			3.	Uncontrollable emotions: A person with depression may have uncontrollable emotions. In one moment, there may be outbursts of anger and in another moment, there may be uncontrollable tears. These fluctuating mood swings have nothing to do with what the person is experiencing at the time

			4.	Self-destruction, suicide: Many people who suffer from depression commit suicide. Often, depressed patients will talk about it first and then make a first or second attempt at committing suicide before succeeding in ending their lives.

			5.	A Lowered sex drive: Losing interest in sex is a sign of depression. A decreased sex drive and even impotence is often a sign of depression. A person with depression loses interest in things that everyone has pleasure or enjoyment in. A loss of interest in activities that were previously enjoyed is frequently a sign of depression.

			6.	A Lack of energy: A person with depression may lack energy and feel tired all the time. Indeed some people with depression may rather complain of feeling tired or sleepy rather than feeling depressed.

			7.	A Change in Eating patterns: Some people with depression eat much larger quantities of food than usual whilst some others eat less. This means that a person with depression may either put on weight or lose weight.

			8.	Memory problems: Depression has been linked to memory problems such as forgetfulness and confusion. Depression and anxiety may lead to speech deficits such as long pauses during a conversation.

			9.	Social withdrawal: Social withdrawal is one of the most common and telling signs of depression. Depression often leads people to isolate themselves. This is extremely common because depressed people are bombarded with negative thoughts. Isolation during depression occurs because people feel miserable, worthless, unmotivated, irritable, angry, ashamed, misunderstood and hopeless. Depressed people do not like to spend time with other people.





CHAPTER 22




Those Who Are Depressed




			To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for THE SPIRIT OF HEAVINESS; that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified.

			Isaiah 61:3

	 			Depression is a condition, which many people in the ministry struggle with. Many people in this life are hurting, lonely and desperate. In the Bible, there are many words, which speak of this same condition of depression. Words like “broken-hearted,” “downcast”, “troubled,” “mourning,” all describe the same condition of depression.

			If you go through this life without experiencing several bouts of depression, you probably deserve to enter the Guinness Book of World Records. There are few pastors who can say that they have never had moments of despair, moments of disappointment, moments of misery and hopelessness.

			The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised,

			Luke 4:18

			Our world is depressed. Our world is broken hearted. Jesus was called to preach the gospel to the whole world. The first group of people Jesus was sent to were the poor and the broken-hearted. God is nigh to those that are of a broken heart.

			There are few people who can say they have never been disillusioned, discouraged and troubled in this life. Even today, as you read this book, you may be depressed, which may be why you chose to read this chapter.

			Major characters of the Bible experienced depression in a real way.

			1.	JEREMIAH WAS DEPRESSED AND MOODY

			CURSED BE THE DAY WHEREIN I WAS BORN: LET NOT THE DAY WHEREIN MY MOTHER BARE ME BE BLESSED. CURSED BE THE MAN WHO BROUGHT TIDINGS TO MY FATHER, SAYING, A MAN CHILD IS BORN unto thee; making him very glad. And let that man be as the cities which the LORD overthrew, and repented not: and let him hear the cry in the morning, and the shouting at noontide; Because he slew me not from the womb; or that my mother might have been my grave, and her womb to be always great with me. WHEREFORE CAME I FORTH OUT OF THE WOMB TO SEE LABOUR AND SORROW, THAT MY DAYS SHOULD BE CONSUMED WITH SHAME?

			Jeremiah 20:14-18

			Jeremiah felt depressed about the ministry. He felt hopeless about his ministry. He had had great visions and God had proven Himself to him. He had been prophesying since he was a child. But obvious victories do not mean much to a person who is depressed. Jeremiah was so negative about his life. This is typical of someone who is experiencing depression.

			A person with depression may be moody! A person with depression may express excessive sadness, hopelessness and a lack of excitement. Hopelessness is the hallmark of depression. Some people with depression feel hopeless all or most of the time. Some people who are depressed feel that they are worthless. Others feel that everything is an effort all the time. Other people with the hopeless outlook may think, “What is the use of all that I am doing?”

			2.	KING DAVID WAS DEPRESSED AND QUIET

			Depressed people are quiet and do not communicate much. A person with depression may not say much and may have a difficulty in understanding information. King David went into deep depression after the Lord struck Bathsheba’s child.

			And Nathan departed unto his house. And the LORD struck the child that Uriah’s wife bare unto David, and it was very sick. David therefore besought God for the child; and David fasted, and went in, and lay all night upon the earth. And the elders of his house arose, and went to him, to raise him up from the earth: but he would not, neither did he eat bread with them.

			2 Samuel 12:15-17

			Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.

			Psalm 42:11

			Depressed people also have a lowered sex drive: Losing interest in sex is a sign of depression. A decreased sex drive and even impotence is often a sign of depression. A person with depression loses interest in things that everyone has pleasure or enjoyment in. A loss of interest in activities that were previously enjoyed is frequently a sign of depression.

			And he said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept: for I said, Who can tell whether GOD will be gracious to me, that the child may live? But now he is dead, wherefore should I fast? can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me. And DAVID COMFORTED BATHSHEBA HIS WIFE, AND WENT IN UNTO HER, AND LAY WITH HER: AND SHE BARE A SON, and he called his name Solomon: and the LORD loved him.

			2 Samuel 12:22-24

			3.	JONAH WAS DEPRESSED AND SUICIDAL

			But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry. And he prayed unto the LORD, and said, I pray thee, O LORD, was not this my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled before unto Tarshish: for I knew that thou art a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Therefore now, O LORD, TAKE, I BESEECH THEE, MY LIFE FROM ME; FOR IT IS BETTER FOR ME TO DIE THAN TO LIVE. Then said the LORD, Doest thou well to be angry? So Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth, and sat under it in the shadow, till he might see what would become of the city. And the LORD God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd. But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd that it withered. And it came to pass, when the sun did arise, that God prepared a vehement east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and wished in himself to die, and said, IT IS BETTER FOR ME TO DIE THAN TO LIVE. And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? And he said, I DO WELL TO BE ANGRY, EVEN UNTO DEATH.

			Jonah 4:1-9

			Jonah was depressed and very suicidal. Jonah prayed that he would die. People with depression are suicidal. Many people who suffer from depression commit suicide. Often, depressed patients will talk about it first and then make a first or second attempt at committing suicide before succeeding in ending their lives.

			4.	ELIJAH SUFFERED FROM DEPRESSION

			Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by to morrow about this time. And when he saw that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day’s journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree: and he requested for himself that he might die; and said, It is enough; now, O LORD, TAKE AWAY MY LIFE; FOR I AM NOT BETTER THAN MY FATHERS.

			1 Kings 19:2-4

			Elijah was famous for killing four hundred prophets of Baal. Elijah demonstrated the power of God in a way that no one else had. Yet, when the spirit of Jezebel threatened him, he became depressed and retreated from his ministry into the wilderness, where he stayed away from human contact.

			Social withdrawal is one of the most common and telling signs of depression. Depression often leads people to isolate themselves. Isolation during depression occurs because people feel miserable, worthless, unmotivated, irritable, angry, ashamed, misunderstood and hopeless. Depressed people do not like to spend time with other people.

			Elijah began to pray for death to come for him. Elijah wanted to die and he actually prayed for death. If this could happen to such a great prophet, I do not see how it cannot happen to you.

			5.	JOB SUFFERED FROM DEPRESSION

			Why died I not from the womb? why did I not give up the ghost when I came out of the belly?

			Job 3:11

			 Or as an hidden untimely birth I had not been; as infants which never saw light.

			Job 3:16

			My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.

			Job 10:1

			Job is given as an example of a patient person who endured many things in his quest to be faithful to God. Even Job’s wife wondered at Job’s decision to continue serving the Lord.

			Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul as the wind: and my welfare passeth away as a cloud. And now my soul is poured out upon me; the days of affliction have taken hold upon me. My bones are pierced in me in the night season: and my sinews take no rest.

			Job 30:15-17

			Even though Job was faithful to God, he had uncontrollable emotions with outbursts of anger at the situation he was experiencing. When someone is depressed, in one moment there may be outbursts of anger and in another moment, there may be uncontrollable tears. These fluctuating mood swings may have nothing to do with what the person is experiencing at the time.

			Reading the words of Job as he went through his situation, reveals a desperate depression in his life.

			The Answer to Depression

			But GOD, WHO COMFORTS THE DEPRESSED, comforted us by the coming of Titus;

			2 Corinthians 7:6 (NASB)

			The Lord is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit.

			Psalm 34:18

			God is near to people that are depressed and broken hearted. This is what the Bible says. God is with you in the good days but He is also with you in the difficult times. God does not condemn the people who were depressed in the Bible for speaking out their feelings in their times of depression.

			Jesus cares! God cares! God has compassion and mercy for you in your disillusionment and confusion. God is working out the victory even though you are in tears and in pain. Do not drive away people who bring you joy and hope.

			Everybody needs joy-givers and hope-givers! Jesus is the Saviour of the world and He is anointed for the broken-hearted and the depressed. He understands every weakness, every hurt and every traumatic experience of your life. He is your healer! He is your redeemer!

			In the Garden, throughout the night, Jesus prayed alone, calling on His Father. Jesus was overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. Jesus was desperate as He prayed for God to change the circumstance. Jesus wanted it changed! Jesus was so affected in Gethsemane that He sweated drops of blood.

			I do not know where you are today. Maybe you are on a dark road. When you look around, you cannot see anybody like yourself. I want you to know that you are not alone. God is with you! He will never leave you and He will never forsake you!

			For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.

			Hebrews 4:15

			Your season of suffering will not be wasted. Somehow, it will bring the presence of God closer to you. Through God’s mysterious ways, something good and purposeful will come out of every suffering and every unfortunate experience you have gone through. It will only make you stronger. Do not feel hopeless because of your frequent depression! Jesus is anointed to heal every broken-hearted person! Jesus was tempted in all points just as we are. Jesus will heal your depression because He knows exactly how you feel.





CHAPTER 23




Disloyalty and Madness Chart





References

			Excerpts from:

			CHAPTER 1

				1-1“Understanding Madness” Research Gate. Web. 28 Oct 2024. Retrieved from https://www.researchgate.net/publication/290244384_Understanding_madness

				2	The Age of Enlightenment (also the Age of Reason and the Enlightenment) was an intellectual and philosophical movement that occurred in Europe in the 17th and the 18th centuries. Definition Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Age_of_Enlightenment

				3 Andrew T. Scull (born 1947) is a British-born sociologist who researches the social history of medicine and the history of psychiatry. Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Scull

				4 Andrew Snape (1675–1742) was an English cleric, academic and headmaster, provost of King’s College, Cambridge. Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andrew_Snape

				5 Felix Platter (28 October 1536 – 28 July 1614) was a Swiss physician, well known for his classification of psychiatric diseases. Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Felix_Platter

				6. Robert Burton (8 February 1577 – 25 January 1640) was an English author and fellow of Oxford University, known for his encyclopedic The Anatomy of Melancholy. Retrieved from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Burton

			CHAPTER 4

			 	7-7 “Facts About Mental Health” Do Something . Web. 28 Oct 2024. Retrieved from https://dosomething.org/article/11-facts-about-mental-health

				8-8 “Global Mental Health Statistics” Hopechest . Web. 28 Oct 2024. Retrieved from https://www.hopechest.org/global-mental-health-statistics/.

				9-9 “Mortality in mental disorders” PubMed. Web. 28 Oct 2024. Retrieved from https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/25671328/

			CHAPTER 5

				10-10 “Health Topics” Schizophrenia . Web. 28 Oct 2024. Retrieved from https://www.nimh.nih.gov/health/topics/schizophrenia

			CHAPTER 14

				11-11“Grandiose Delusions” Findzebra.com . Web. 28 Oct 2024. Retrieved from https://findzebra.com/details/RyBEE3M-grandiose-delusions?q=

			CHAPTER 20

				12-12“High Conflict Personality” Psychmechanics.com . Web. 28 Oct 2024. Retrieved from https://www.psychmechanics.com/high-conflict-personality/





