		 			Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.

			Am I Good For Nothing?

			Copyright © 2022 Dag Heward-Mills

			First published 2022 by Parchment House

			77Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills at:

			Healing Jesus Campaign

			Email: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

			Website: www.daghewardmills.org

			Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

			Twitter: @EvangelistDag

			ISBN : 978-1-64330-610-0

			All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Table of Contents

CHAPTER 1 : Am I Good for Nothing?

CHAPTER 2 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Prevent Corruption

CHAPTER 3 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Preach Properly

CHAPTER 4 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Destroy Invisible Demonic Powers

CHAPTER 5 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Do Enough

CHAPTER 6 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Help to Finance the Work of God

CHAPTER 7 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Produce Oil

CHAPTER 8 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Are Not Used for De-Icing

CHAPTER 9 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Bring Healing

CHAPTER 10 : You Are Good for Nothing If You Cannot Work Quietly and Effectively

CHAPTER 11 : What Happens When You Are Good for Nothing?





CHAPTER 1




Am I Good for Nothing?




		 			Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16



		 			In the teaching about salt, Jesus asked a soul-searching question: “Are you good for nothing?” “Are you worthless to God?”

			This is therefore, a prophetic book about salt and its mysterious influence and prophetic usefulness to the kingdom of God.

			All through the Bible, we find God inviting people to Himself. Why does God want you to come to Him? God wants human beings to serve Him, to worship Him and to come near to Him. It is only when you serve God that you are useful to Him.

			It is important that you serve God and prevent yourself from being useless and valueless to God.

			It must not be that you are of no significance to the kingdom of God. You must ensure that you make yourself of some value and some importance to the kingdom of God. You do not have to be a pastor in order to be useful to God. As you will learn in this book, there are many ways in which you can make yourself useful to God’s kingdom.

			Why did God create you? Why does God leave you alive on the earth when many of your friends, colleagues and classmates have perished and are no more remembered on earth?

			It is important to ask yourself this question over and over again, “Am I good for nothing?”

			All through His ministry, Jesus presented this question to His followers. “Are you good for nothing?” Many of the stories of Jesus point to this question; “Am I good for nothing?”

			Such unfruitful servants are good examples of salt that has lost its savour. An unprofitable servant is good for nothing, just as Jesus said. Anyone who does not use his God-given talents for the kingdom is salt that has lost its savour. Are you good for nothing in the kingdom? If you do not use your talents regularly you will be declared good for nothing in the kingdom. You may be useful to your old students’ association or to the local keep-fit club. You may be a committee member of the local gym but are you good for nothing when it comes to the kingdom of God?

			1.	The story of the man who was given one talent teaches a lesson that you should not be good for nothing.

			And cast ye the UNPROFITABLE SERVANT into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

			Matthew 25:30

			2.	The story of the men who were given a pound each also teaches the lesson that you should not be good for nothing.

			And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come… And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin:

			Luke 19:13, 20

			3.	The story of the prodigal son teaches us about a son who was good for nothing.

			And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.

			Luke 15:14

			4.	The story of the Good Samaritan teaches us about a priest and a Levite who were good for nothing as they passed by a stricken traveller.

			And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.

			Luke 10:30-32

			5.	The account of the fig tree that Jesus cursed teaches us about a fig tree that was good for nothing.

			And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet. And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee hereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it.

			Mark 11:13-14

			6.	The parable of the sower who went out to sow also reveals how most seeds turn out to be good for nothing.

			A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it.

			Luke 8:5

			7.	The parable of the man who came looking for fruit for three years and found none is another lesson about being good for nothing.

			He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?

			Luke 13:6-7

			8.	Servants who do not use their talents are unprofitable and useless to the kingdom.

			Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath. And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

			Matthew 25:28-30

			9.	Christians who live in unrighteousness are unprofitable and useless to the kingdom. Sin causes people to be unfruitful. Unrighteous Christians can be described as salt that has lost its savour. They are useless and they are good for nothing, just as Jesus said. It is important that you do not become useless to God. Otherwise you will be cast unto the dunghill. “Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned?. It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill; but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.” (Luke 14:34-35).

				Are you living an unrighteous life? Are you living a life of wickedness?

			As it is written, there is none righteous, no, not one: There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way, THEY ARE TOGETHER BECOME UNPROFITABLE; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

			Romans 3:10-12

			All through His ministry, Jesus tried to turn His disciples away from emptiness, uselessness and fruitlessness.

			1.	The account of Jesus’ disciples who could not cast out a devil revealed a set of disciples who were not useful enough to bring deliverance to a demon possessed boy.

			2.	The story account of Jesus warning His disciples that they would desert Him during crucifixion was a warning that they should not be good for nothing.

			3.	The account of Jesus asking Peter, “Do you love me” after Peter betrayed Him revealed a master who was asking a soul-searching question: “Peter, are you good for nothing?”

			4.	The commandment of Jesus to His disciples; “Go into all the world and preach the gospel”, was intended to prevent them from becoming insignificant, valueless and good for nothing. Jesus had trained and taught these men for three good years. Were they good for nothing? Were they going to be good for nothing? Hopefully, they would take the gospel to the ends of the world.

			Perhaps, the greatest teaching on being good for nothing happened when Jesus spoke about being the salt of the earth. Jesus made a profound statement. He said, “You are the salt of the earth.” The mysterious statement “You are the salt of the earth” by Jesus is both deep and prophetic. When Jesus said “You are the salt of the earth,” He knew that salt could be used for many things. Salt, indeed, has many uses.

			You are the salt of the earth! Salt is an essential part of human life. Salt will always be needed. You are called salt so that you can be an essential part of humanity. You will always be needed! God’s call is on your life! It is when you do not fulfil your calling as the salt of the earth that you become good for nothing. Anyone who is useless or unprofitable is not the salt of the earth.

			In the next few chapters, we will discover what it means to be good for nothing by analysing and understanding the role of salt in our lives.





CHAPTER 2




You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Prevent Corruption




		 			Ye are the salt of the earth: but IF THE SALT HAVE LOST HIS SAVOUR, wherewith shall it be salted? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-1



		 			Salt preserves food! Salt is a preservative! Salt is good for nothing when it does not act as a preservative and prevent corruption any more.

			When salt does not prevent the spread of evil corruption it is useless. The Christian’s presence is to prevent the spread of corruption in the world. Your presence must prevent the spread of the corruption, sexual perversions and wickedness in the world.

			According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue: Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, HAVING ESCAPED THE CORRUPTION THAT IS IN THE WORLD THROUGH LUST.

			2 Peter 1:3-4

			Through the lusts and desires of men, much corruption is spread about in the world. The whole world is full of dishonesty, treachery, depravity, perversions, decadence and immorality. These things are found everywhere. Through the gospel of Jesus Christ and through your life, you are preventing the spread of this evil corruption.

			How to Prevent the Spread of Corruption

			According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue: Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, HAVING ESCAPED THE CORRUPTION THAT IS IN THE WORLD THROUGH LUST.

			2 Peter 1:3-4

			The scripture above shows us that through the knowledge of God, we have escaped the corruption that is in the world. It is therefore important that we prevent the spread of corruption in the world by spreading the knowledge of God. Teaching the word of God and teaching the promises of God prevent all manner of financial, spiritual and moral corruption in the world. Spreading the knowledge of God is important in preventing and curing the corruption that is in the world. When people are filled with the word of God, depravity and crookedness go away. It is only through the promises of God that you can escape the corruption that is in the world.

			1.	Spread the knowledge of God and prevent corruption by preaching the gospel. You must preach the gospel to prevent the spread of corruption.

			Without the preaching of the gospel, people will not be saved. It is only people who are saved by the power of God who escape corruption. As salvation spreads throughout the nations, corruption is also prevented from spreading.

			2.	Spread the knowledge of God and prevent corruption by teaching the word of God. You must teach the word of God to prevent the spread of corruption.

			As teachings of the word of God go forth, people are transformed by the renewing of their minds. Transformation takes place when people hear the word of God. People are transformed by the rebukes, the correction, the instruction and the reproof that come from the word of God.

			And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.

			Romans 12:2

			3.	Spread the knowledge of God by living pure and preventing corruption. You must live pure to prevent the spread of corruption.

			As you live pure, you set an example in the world. Your example is a shining light in a very dark world. You prevent the spread of darkness by your lifestyle.

			Do all things without murmurings and disputings: That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, IN THE MIDST OF A CROOKED AND PERVERSE NATION, AMONG WHOM YE SHINE AS LIGHTS IN THE WORLD;

			Philippians 2:14-15

			4.	You must spread the knowledge of God about sex in order to prevent the spread of corrupted sexual perversions. God has a lot to say about sex and sexual sin. The word of God is not silent about sexual corruption. God has given rules for human beings to live by. As we teach God’s word about sex and sexuality, it will prevent the spread of abnormal variants and sexual perversions.

			Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves: … For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature: And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of their error which was meet.

			Romans 1:24, 26-27

			As varied sexual perversions and alternative lifestyles spread as legitimate practices throughout the world, nations have become more perverted and corrupted. The church must stand strong on the word of God and reject the corruption that is spreading. You must refuse to be pushed around by sick men who want to super-impose their depraved lifestyles on the rest of the world. The word of God prevents corruption. The word of God grants divine escapes from corruption.





CHAPTER 3




You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Preach Properly




		 			YE ARE THE SALT OF THE EARTH: BUT IF THE SALT HAVE LOST HIS SAVOUR, WHEREWITH SHALL IT BE SALTED? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16

		 			Salt makes food acceptable, tasty and palatable! Salt is good for nothing if it does not make food more palatable and enjoyable to us. The food we have to give is the word of God.

			When there is no salt in this food, it is uneatable. A believer is to make the word of God more palatable. The world cannot receive the word of God because it is often difficult to understand and difficult to believe.

			How to be the Salt of the Earth and Make the Word of God Acceptable

			1.	You are the salt of the earth, so make the word of God acceptable by preaching properly. When you preach well, people understand what you are saying and light and understanding are imparted to them. It is important the word of God enters people.

			The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.

			Psalm 119:130

			I can remember different occasions in my life when I tried to eat saltless food. I stopped eating almost immediately. There is saltless rice, saltless chicken and saltless meat. Try eating meat that has not been well salted or seasoned. You will find out how uneatable it is! The world is looking for good preachers who can preach the word of God in such a way that they will be saved.

			Develop the art of preaching and teaching until you are an expert in delivering the word of God. People must be saved and changed when you preach the word of God. When changes come to people’s lives through your preaching and teaching, you are truly being the salt of the earth.

			2. 	You are the salt of the earth, so make the word of God acceptable by removing every offensive element in your preaching and teaching ministry.

			Some years ago, we conducted crusades in various towns and villages. We would arrive, set up the crusade and minister powerfully for three or four nights. One day, my mother-in-law told me that we had offended the chiefs in the town because we had not paid a courtesy call to them. I discovered that my preaching was offensive in these towns because I had not paid a courtesy call to the traditional rulers. From that time on, we adjusted our schedule and would pay a courtesy call to all the city and traditional authorities. By doing this, I was making the word of God more acceptable to the people of that town.

			One day, I preached at a place where it was offensive for a pastor to whistle. On another occasion, I preached in a town where it was unacceptable to point at anyone with the left hand. I also preached at a place where it was offensive for a man to wear a long shirt because it made him look like a woman in their eyes. Once I noted all these rules, I made extra efforts to avoid them. I learnt to make my message as acceptable as possible. What can you do to make your preaching more palatable?

			3.	You are the salt of the earth, so make the word of God acceptable by teaching in an orderly fashion. Some people do not like preaching that has no structure. If you have to introduce some points into the preaching to make it easier for someone to receive, you must do so.

			4.	You are the salt of the earth, so make the word of God acceptable by showing how the prophecies from the word of God have come to pass.

			We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:

			2 Peter 1:19

			Jesus Christ fulfilled many scriptures when He walked among us. Everything about Jesus was written hundreds of years before He lived. It was predicted that He would die amongst thieves and be buried with the rich. No one controls his own death and burial. Yet Jesus fulfilled the little details concerning His own death and burial. Many Jews have turned to Christ because of the irrefutable evidence from their own Holy Book. Fulfilled prophecies help to make the Bible more palatable.

			I became more interested in the Bible as I saw the prophecies and predictions coming to pass. God’s Word is amazing! One day I saw a young lady fulfilling a prophecy in the book of James. I was amazed that she had fulfilled the scripture to the uttermost. I have watched rebellious people fulfil scriptures time and time again. I have watched ungrateful and disloyal people magically fulfil the scriptures. Each time, I have been amazed at how true the word of God is. When you point out to people how true scriptures are, it helps them to receive the Bible as an awesome book.

			5.	You are the salt of the earth, so make the word of God acceptable by showing that the word of God does not conflict with science. The word of God does not conflict with science. I am a medical doctor. I studied science from Form One up to sixth form and for another seven years in medical school. That makes a total of fourteen years studying science. It is possible to teach and demonstrate that scientific values complement the word of God and do not contradict it.

			6.	You are the salt of the earth so make the word of God acceptable by preaching with signs, wonders, miracles and healings.

			And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased.

			John 6:2

			There are many people who are not interested in your orderly sermon with many points. Such people are convinced by miracles, signs and wonders. You can make the word of God more palatable by ministering with manifestations of the Holy Spirit.





CHAPTER 4




You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Destroy Invisible Demonic Powers




		 			YE ARE THE SALT of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16

		 			Germs are invisible enemies! The corona virus for example, is an invisible enemy. Salt kills germs! Salt deals with the invisible enemies of our lives. If you are the salt of the earth, you will constantly deal with the invisible enemies of our world. Salt is used as an antiseptic and is able to kill and neutralize many germs. Salt is therefore good for nothing if it does not act as antiseptic that kills germs. When Christians who are the salt of the earth do not deal with the invisible enemies of the world, then they have lost their saltiness and are useless and unprofitable.

			Demons are invisible, spiritual enemies that fight against human beings. Just as germs cause diseases, plagues and problems for human beings, demons also cause diseases, plagues and pandemics. When Christians fail in the fight against demons they are failing to be salt! We must fight the invisible enemies in the world.

			How to be the Salt of the Earth and Destroy Invisible Enemies

			1.	You are the salt of the earth so you must destroy invisible demonic strongholds through prayer. If you do not rise up in prayer, you are not being the salt of the earth. Your presence on earth is felt through the prayers that you offer up. Your powerful prayers make you the salt of the earth. As you pray for hours you are destroying the works of darkness. Every hour of prayer that goes up from your house is pumping salt into the system. The salt is inhibiting the growth of germs. The salt is inhibiting the activities of demons.

			Or else how can one enter into a strong man’s house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? And then he will spoil his house.

			Matthew 12:29

			2.	You are the salt of the earth so you must destroy invisible demonic strongholds by casting down evil thoughts. If you do not cast down imaginations and ideologies that are against the word of God, you are not being the salt of the earth. As you cast down imaginations you are destroying the works of darkness. Every effort you make to cast down evil thoughts is pumping salt into the system. The salt is inhibiting the growth of germs. The salt is inhibiting the activities of demons.

			(For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God to the pulling down of strong holds;) Casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought to the obedience of Christ;

			2 Corinthians 10:4-5

			3.	You are the salt of the earth so you must destroy invisible demonic strongholds by using the word of God.

			The word of God is an invisible sword that strikes to the heart of the enemy. If you do not rise up and preach the word of God, you are not being the salt of the earth. As you preach the word of God, you are destroying the works of darkness. Every sermon that goes out from you is pumping salt into the system. Every book that you write is pumping salt into the system. The salty sermons are inhibiting the activity of demons. The salty books and writings are blocking the activities of devils.

			For the word of God is quick, and powerful, and sharper than any twoedged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.

			Hebrews 4:12





CHAPTER 5




You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Do Enough




		 			YE ARE THE SALT of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16

		 			There may be salt in the food but if the salt is not enough the food is still not tasty. Salt is good for nothing when it is not enough! There may be salt but it must be enough if it is to have any effect. It is important that salt makes its “presence” felt.

			If you are the salt of the earth there are several things that you must do enough of to make your presence felt. You must put enough salt in the rice if you want to change the flavour of the rice. You must put enough salt into stew if you want the stew to taste nice. You must put enough salt into meat if you want the meat to be eatable. God is speaking to you about doing enough. You must work hard until you have done more than enough. You must put in more effort and more strength until you have done so much for God.

			Six Things You Need to Do Enough of

			1. 	You must pray enough if it is to have an effect on the world. You are the salt of the earth so you must pray enough.

			When salt is not enough it simply does not have the effect that it should have. Jesus prayed for three hours. Jesus prayed all night. Jesus prayed for forty days and nights in the wilderness. Jesus wondered why His disciples could not pray for just one hour. Clearly, if you do not pray enough it will not have the necessary impact on the world.

			2. You must preach enough if it is to have an effect on the world. You are the salt of the earth so you must preach enough.

			When salt is not enough it simply does not have the effect that it could have. Preaching the word of God has a great effect on the world. However, there needs to be enough of preaching before it truly impacts a nation. You will notice that many nations are filled with wickedness, even though there are powerful preachers in those nations. Indeed, there is preaching but often there is not enough preaching. Crusades need to be held repeatedly for them to have an effect on a city. Having one crusade every twenty-five years is not going to change anything. If you analyse the nations that have been visited repeatedly by evangelists, you will notice that they are quite different from countries that have never had a visit.

			3.	You must write and publish enough books if they are to have an effect on the world.

			When salt is not enough it simply does not have the effect that it could have. The Bible has a great impact and effect on the world because it has been printed and published enough. The Bible has been printed and published more than any other book and that is why it has had the impact it has. If the Bible were not published enough, it would never have the effect that it has.

			Authors who have written many books are the ones who make an impact. Authors like Kenneth Hagin, Derek Prince and Tim LaHaye have written so many books that they have had a great impact on the world. There are other Christian authors who have written one or two books. Often, these books do not have a certain salty effect on the world. When salt is not enough it simply does not have the effect that it could have.

			4.	You must plant and build enough churches if they are to have an effect on the world.

			When salt is not enough it simply does not have the effect that it could have. One church in your city is not going to have the effect that it needs to have. To have an effect on that city, you need to have several churches in all the different corners of the city. If there is salt but the salt is not enough, it is as though there is no salt. When the church is present in a city but does not have enough of a presence, it still does not influence the city.

			5.	You must give enough if it is to have an effect on the world.

			When salt is not enough it simply does not have the effect that it could have. It is important to give at a certain level if you are to make a certain impact with your giving. There are many givers whose giving does not make a great enough impact on the church. King David made a huge offering towards the building of the temple. This offering was so great that it is recorded in the Bible.

			Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God, I have of mine own proper good, of gold and silver, which I have given to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house.

			1 Chronicles 29:3

			King Solomon also made a substantial offering when the temple was dedicated. I am sure many other kings gave offerings towards the temple but their offerings were not big enough to make an impact on the ministry.

			Also king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel that were assembled unto him before the ark, sacrificed sheep and oxen, which could not be told nor numbered for multitude.

			2 Chronicles 5:6

			6. You must travel enough if it is to have any effect on the world.

			When salt is not enough it simply does not have the effect that it could have. John Wesley travelled a lot and that is why he made the impact that he did. Billy Graham travelled all over the world and that is why his ministry had a great effect on the world. Reinhard Bonnke travelled all over Africa and that is why he had such a great effect on Africa.





CHAPTER 6




You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Help to Finance the Work of God




		 			YE ARE THE SALT OF THE EARTH: BUT IF THE SALT HAVE LOST HIS SAVOUR, WHEREWITH SHALL IT BE SALTED? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16

		 			Salt is good for nothing when it cannot be used to produce useful wealth. Salt is a source of wealth for many people! Salt is good for nothing when it does not produce wealth for people who have it.

			The salt in the sea can produce wealth for people who know how to extract it. If you have miles and miles of coastline but are unable to harvest and harness the salt in it, you have missed a great source of wealth that is available to you. If the salt that is so abundant in the sea does not produce wealth for you then it is good for nothing.

			If you do not produce wealth for the kingdom you are good for nothing. God is expecting many people to produce wealth for the kingdom of God. If you are the salt of the world, your presence in the kingdom of God must produce some wealth for God’s house.

			How to become a Source of Wealth

			1.	Be the salt of the earth by being a source of wealth for the kingdom of God. Become a source of wealth for the church by paying tithes.

			Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.

			Malachi 3:10

			2.	Be the salt of the earth by being a source of wealth for the kingdom of God. Become a source of wealth for the church by giving special offerings.

			Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God, I have of mine own proper good, of gold and silver, which I have given to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house.

			1 Chronicles 29:3

			3.	Be the salt of the earth by being a source of wealth for the kingdom of God. Become a source of wealth for the church by building the house of God.

			Brothers and sisters, we want you to know about the grace that God has given to the churches in Macedonia. They have suffered a great deal. But in their suffering, their joy was more than full. Even though they were very poor, they gave very freely. I tell you that they gave as much as they could. In fact, they gave even more than they could...

			2 Corinthians 8:1-3 (NIRV)

			4.	Be the salt of the earth by being a source of wealth for the kingdom of God. Become a source of wealth for the church by helping when there is a need.

			And you believers at Philippi know what happened when I left Macedonia. Not one church helped me in the matter of giving and receiving. You were the only one that did. That was in the early days when you first heard the good news. Even when I was in Thessalonica, you sent me help when I needed it. And you did it more than once. It is not that I want your gifts. What I really want is what is best for you. I have received my full pay and have more than enough. I have everything I need. That’s because Epaphroditus brought me the gifts you sent. They are a sweet-smelling offering. They are a gift that God accepts. He is pleased with it. My God will meet all your needs. He will meet them in keeping with his wonderful riches. These riches come to you because you belong to Christ Jesus.

			Philippians 4:15-19 (NIRV)

			5.	Be the salt of the earth by being a source of wealth for the kingdom of God.

			Become a source of wealth for the church by remembering the Lord when you are blessed. Nabal is the best example of someone who did not remember the Lord when he experienced prosperity. When God blesses you and gives you great increase you are expected to remember the house of God. Your wealth is supposed to produce wealth for the kingdom of God. When you do not remember God’s house in your day of prosperity, you are good for nothing.

			Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance: but the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb. And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep. And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name: And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thine house, and peace be unto all that thou hast. And now I have heard that thou hast shearers: now thy shepherds which were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ought missing unto them, all the while they were in Carmel. Ask thy young men, and they will shew thee. Wherefore let the young men find favour in thine eyes: for we come in a good day: give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David. And when David’s young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David, and ceased. And Nabal answered David’s servants, and said, who is David? And who is the son of Jesse? There be many servants now a days that break away every man from his master. Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not whence they be?

			1 Samuel 25:3-11





CHAPTER 7




You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Produce Oil




		 			YE ARE THE SALT OF THE EARTH: BUT IF THE SALT HAVE LOST HIS SAVOUR, WHEREWITH SHALL IT BE SALTED? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16

		 			Salt is used to produce oil! Salt is used in the oil industry and is a very important ingredient in the production of oil.

			Industrial salt is used as a component of drilling fluids, primarily in the exploration and extraction of crude oil and natural gas.

			Salt makes an essential contribution to the stability of the drill hole and to the lubrication and cooling of the drill head. Salt is also an important raw material for downstream steps in the processing of crude oil or for industrial water treatment.

			Salt is good for nothing when it cannot be used to produce oil.

			In the same way, Christians who are the salt of the earth are expected to produce and release the oil and the anointing to this world. The anointing oil will break the yokes that keep people in bondage.

			When Christians do not “produce the anointing” they are good for nothing. The anointing speaks of the gift of God and the grace of God for ministry. You must become a source of oil today. You must be a good example of the salt of the earth. You must not allow yourself to be good for nothing.

			How to become a Source of Oil

			And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth. THESE ARE THE TWO OLIVE TREES, and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth.

			Revelation 11:3-4

			1.	You will become a source of oil when you become a witness of the Lord Jesus Christ.

			In the scripture above, witnesses of Jesus Christ were called olive trees. The most anointed people in the world are those who speak about Jesus Christ. Today, many people are preaching on secular topics in the church. The words of Jesus are not preached about very much today. Secularised motivational speakers have filled the pulpits. This is the reason why there is very little anointing flowing out of God’s ministers. It is witnesses of Jesus Christ who are the real olive trees.

			You can become a source of oil by simply having the life of an olive tree. God sees you as an olive tree. The two witnesses in the book of Revelation ministered by shutting up heaven and manifesting many signs and wonders in the earth. They were also called olive trees. An olive tree is a source of oil. The witnesses of Jesus Christ will produce much anointing in the last days.

			2.	You will become a source of oil when you become a prophet of the Lord Jesus Christ.

			You can become a source of oil by simply being an olive tree. God sees you as an olive tree. A prophet is an olive tree! An olive tree is a source of oil. You can be a prophet of God and be a source of oil and anointing. A prophet is someone who speaks the mind of God. The two prophets in the book of Revelation ministered by shutting up heaven and manifesting many signs and wonders in the earth.

			3.	You will become a source of oil when you survive “the shaking”.

			When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people, there shall be as the shaking of an olive tree, and as the gleaning grapes when the vintage is done.

			Isaiah 24:13

			You can become a source of oil by simply having the life of an olive tree. God sees you as an olive tree. A good olive tree is shaken every year. Olives are harvested from an olive tree by shaking the tree. These olives are then the source of the precious oil. There are many shakings that are going to come your way. If you survive the shaking, you will become a source of oil to the world. Just knowing a few scriptures will not make you a source of oil. Being appointed as a pastor will not make you a source of oil. Surviving the shaking that will come will cause you to be a source of oil.

			4.	You will become a source of oil when you survive “the beating”.

			When thou beatest thine olive tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow.

			Deuteronomy 24:20

			You can become a source of oil by simply having the life of an olive tree. God sees you as an olive tree. A good olive tree is beaten every year! Olives are harvested from a tree by beating the tree. These beaten olives are then the source of the precious oil. The beating of the olive tree speaks of persecution that will come to God’s servant. You can expect to have severe beatings from time to time in order to extract the anointing from you. Expect many beatings, persecutions, painful trials and difficulties. That is the life of an olive tree. Every olive tree receives many beatings in its lifetime. If you survive the beating, you will become a source of oil to the world.

			5.	You will become a source of oil when you survive many years.

			It takes about fifteen years for an olive tree to bear its first fruits. Most olive trees reach the age of between three hundred to six hundred years. Older olive trees have survived forest fires, natural disasters and the emergence of human civilizations.

			Olive trees are some of the oldest trees in the world. There are many olive trees that are said to be thousands of years old. The oldest olive tree in the world is over three thousand years old!

			To become an olive tree, you must be someone who can survive many years in the ministry. It is going to take a long standing survivor to produce olive oil. Are you ready to survive many years in the ministry? Are you ready to go through forest fires, natural disasters and human invasions? Are you ready to survive shaking and beating? Will you be around after many years so you can produce oil for many more years to come?





CHAPTER 8




You Are Good for Nothing If You Are Not Used for De-Icing




		 			YE ARE THE SALT OF THE EARTH: BUT IF THE SALT HAVE LOST HIS SAVOUR, WHEREWITH SHALL IT BE SALTED? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16

		 			One of the important uses of salt is to remove ice.Removal of ice from roads in cold temperate zones is an important use of salt. De-icing salt is a particularly effective mixture of very pure, fine and coarse salt crystals. While the fine crystals initiate an immediate de-icing effect, the coarser crystals guarantee the necessary long-term effect of removing thicker layers of snow and ice. Salt is good for nothing if it is not used for de-icing the roads.

			God wants to use every Christian to remove the icy, cold and backslidden spirit from the church. The Christian who is the salt of the world must be used to remove the stubbornness and coldness that characterize backslidden churches.

			The church must be full of zealous Christians who are on fire for the Lord. Your presence must bring the fire of God. Through your words and your zeal, fire and heat will be introduced to the church and all the icy blocks will melt away.

			Today the church is gradually being filled with people who are ice cold and without zeal. All Christians who are the salt of the world will be used to remove icy, uninterested attitudes in the church.

			How to Remove Ice

			1.	Remove ice by the baptism of the Holy Ghost.

			John answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:

			Luke 3:16

			The only way to remove ice is to be zealous for the Lord. Jesus Christ was full of zeal. He came to baptize the church with the Holy Ghost and with fire. The baptism of the Holy Spirit changes a Christian’s life. Instead of living a cool, uninspiring life, the baptism of the Holy Spirit will lift you up to speak in tongues and become a powerful preacher like Peter on the day of Pentecost.

			And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.

			Acts 2:4

			2.	Remove ice by the baptism of fire.

			And the Jews’ passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem, And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting: And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen; and poured out the changers’ money, and overthrew the tables; And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence; make not my Father’s house an house of merchandise. And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.

			John 2:13-17

			The baptism of fire speaks of the baptism of zeal. Jesus Christ came to baptise us with fire and zeal. The zeal of the Lord speaks of the enthusiasm and diligence which was found in Jesus. It is so sad to see unenthusiastic priests going about their priestly duties without any passion whatsoever.

			In the scripture above, we see the fire of God and the zeal of Jesus. He was not content with giving a simple Bible lesson to the thieves who had occupied the church. He whipped them! Jesus whipped traders who had set up shop in the church and drove them out. Perhaps it was unorthodox and unacceptable for Jesus to whip these grown-ups who had occupied the church; but God’s Word shows us that the zeal of the Lord was what really mattered. God saw the whipping of the traders as an act of zeal and not as a manifestation of human rage.





CHAPTER 9




You Are Good for Nothing If You Do Not Bring Healing




		 			YE ARE THE SALT OF THE EARTH: BUT IF THE SALT HAVE LOST HIS SAVOUR, WHEREWITH SHALL IT BE SALTED? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16

		 			Salt is used as medicine! Salt must be used to bring healing. Natural salt is one of the most healing substances on earth. Just as salt is used to bring health and healing to mankind, Christians must become a source of health and healing to this world. If we are not a source of health and healing to the world, we have lost our savour and have become good for nothing.

			How Salt Brings Healing

			1.	Salt neutralizes acid: Salt neutralizes and reduces acids in our body that are associated with life-threatening diseases. If the body’s pH level is either too acidic or too alkaline, the body is at risk for disease to take hold.

			2.	Salt helps with weight loss: The salt water flush, also known as the colon cleanse, is used to assist the digestive system. This forcefully flushes out the content in your colon to prevent any toxins or unwanted material from sitting in your system for too long.

			3.	Salt relieves skin conditions: Many skin conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, acne can be helped by a salt bath. The minerals in the salt deeply cleanse the pores, kill bacteria, and detoxify the skin.

			4.	Salt helps maintain our cells: Salt is the main reason our cells are able to function! Salt has 92 trace minerals, and 24 of them are proven to play a role in our health. The lack of some of these elements can lead to cell damage and cause muscle spasms, brain damage, and nervous disorders.

			5.	Salt relieves joint pains: Epsom salt contains two important elements: magnesium and sulphate. These elements help the muscles and nerves in your body to function properly. Salt baths are a great remedy to reduce joint pain and arthritis. While magnesium has anti-inflammatory properties, sulphate promotes the absorption of nutrients into the skin.

			Be the Salt of the World by Bringing Healing to this World

			1. 	Become a source of healing by praying for the sick.

			The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised,

			Luke 4:18

			You can become a source of healing by praying for the sick. God is interested in the sick and the suffering people of this world. Through your prayers, healing and deliverance will come to many people. On many occasions I have felt the Lord telling me to pray for the sick. Healing is on the heart of God! Jesus said that He was anointed to heal the broken-hearted. We must believe in the ministry of healing. It is a real ministry! Many people are comforted when hands are laid on them.

			2. 	Become a source of healing by building hospitals and practicing medicine.

			The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved. For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt; I am black; astonishment hath taken hold on me. Is there no balm in Gilead; IS THERE NO PHYSICIAN THERE? Why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered?

			Jeremiah 8:20-22

			Building hospitals and practicing medicine is also God’s mercy to mankind. When Adam and Eve fell into sin, God mercifully showed them how to make clothes out of leaves. God helped fallen man to climb out of the hole into which he had fallen. God wants to show mercy to mankind by ministering through hospitals, doctors and nurses. The science which makes the practice of medicine possible is also the gift of God.





CHAPTER 10




You Are Good for Nothing If You Cannot Work Quietly and Effectively




		 			YE ARE THE SALT OF THE EARTH: BUT IF THE SALT HAVE LOST HIS SAVOUR, WHEREWITH SHALL IT BE SALTED? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid. Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 5:13-16

		 			Salt works quietly and effectively in your body. Without sodium your body would not be able to stay alive. Salt is a mysterious chemical! Salt is an important hidden element in your existence! The human body cannot live without the sodium that is in salt. This element is needed to transmit nerve impulses, contract and relax muscle fibres and maintain a proper fluid balance.

			Salt is good for nothing if it does not do its unseen and mysterious works within the human body. In the same way, you are good for nothing if you do not do your unseen and mysterious works within the body of Christ. If you want to be the salt of the earth, you must grow up into working quietly and effectively for the Lord.

			Don’t bother to be seen much. Just do great things for the Lord. You may not know that many people who are on drips in the hospital are receiving normal saline drips. A normal saline drip is a drip of salt. It is used to manage and to treat dehydration and shock. The salt drip quietly and effectively restores a person and effectively brings him back from “the dead”.

			How to Work for God Quietly and Effectively

			1.	You can be the salt of the earth by being a quiet and effective helps minister.

			And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.

			1 Corinthians 12:28

			Salt is quiet and effective and you can be just like that. Jobs like being a prayer warrior, a secretary or even a security guard are quiet and effective ways of having an influence on the earth.

			Work effectively and quietly for the Lord by becoming a good helps minister. The helps ministry is a quiet and effective ministry behind the scenes. Behind every great ministry are usually great helpers. Great helpers are quiet and effective people who are not seen or known by the general public. Some helps ministers are unfaithful and treacherous. Some helps ministers are thieves. Some helps ministers are Judases. You will be one of the good helps ministers!

			2.	You can be the salt of the earth by being a quiet and effective pastor’s wife.

			And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him.

			Genesis 2:18

			Salt is quiet and effective and you can be just like that. Work effectively and quietly for the Lord by being a good pastor’s wife. A wife who is helpful is indeed a quiet and effective backbone to any minister. Many ministers depend on their wives for the quiet and effective help that they give. Not all pastors’ wives are helpful. Some pastors’ wives are ill-natured. Some pastors’ wives are stubborn and argumentative. Indeed, behind every great minister there is not always a quiet and effective wife. Sometimes, a great man of God flourishes in spite of (and not because of) having a great helper as his wife.

			3.	You can be the salt of the earth by being a quiet and effective giver.

			Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.

			Romans 12:8

			Salt is quiet and effective and you can be just like that. Work quietly and effectively for the Lord by giving with simplicity. Your right hand does not need to know what your left hand is doing. You can support the work of God in a great way without making yourself known. It is time to be the salt of the earth. Support the church and help the work of God to go on without necessarily being acknowledged and praised publicly.

			But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth: That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.

			Matthew 6:3-4





CHAPTER 11




What Happens When You Are Good for Nothing?




		 			YE ARE THE SALT OF THE EARTH: BUT IF THE SALT HAVE LOST HIS SAVOUR, WHEREWITH SHALL IT BE SALTED? IT IS THENCEFORTH GOOD FOR NOTHING, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men. Ye are the light of the world.

			Matthew 5:13-14

		 			1.	Those who are good for nothing will be cut down.

			He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; WHY CUMBERETH IT THE GROUND? And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it: And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down.

			Luke 13:6-9

			God is not going to sit around and allow you, a good for nothing brother, to occupy space. In the scripture above, Jesus pointed out that it is not appropriate to leave a good for nothing tree standing in the middle of the garden forever. It must be cut down and replaced. It is my prayer that this short exhortation will help you to jump out of every good for nothing status that you have acquired for yourself. Being nothing in the church and doing nothing in the church makes you good for nothing.

			2.	Those who are good for nothing will be replaced.

			Esther was warned not to be good for nothing! Esther had been elevated to the palace by the grace of God. She was expected to play her part in the palace. God is expecting you to play your part. You cannot sit in the palace and be good for nothing. What is the use of your being in the palace when we cannot call on you? Do you think you have been elevated to the palace so you can buy fancy clothes and attend endless ceremonies and parties? What happens to the rest of us? Did God make a mistake in promoting you to that high position in the palace?

			Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not with thyself that thou shalt escape in the king’s house, more than all the Jews. For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place; but thou and thy father’s house shall be destroyed: and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?

			Esther 4:13-14

			3.	Those who are good for nothing will be thrown into outer darkness.

			I know a country whose citizens always complain when the electricity goes off. People hate darkness! Darkness induces fear! Endless darkness induces endless fear. Be careful you are not thrown into outer darkness.

			And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

			Matthew 25:30

			4.	Those who are good for nothing will be cursed.

			Curses await those who are good for nothing. The fig tree Jesus cursed was good for nothing. No one eats fig leaves and fig branches. Once there was no fruit on the fig tree, it was cursed. If Jesus comes to you seeking fruit and finds none, you can only expect a curse. The lack of fruit in your life makes you good for nothing.

			And on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he was hungry: And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet. And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee hereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it.

			Mark 11:12-14

			5.	Those who are good for nothing will be poor.

			The prodigal son turned himself into a good for nothing and worthless son. He was condemned to poverty and living with pigs. If you make yourself into a good for nothing son, you will be condemned to lack and endless searching for things which you would have enjoyed automatically.

			And he said, a certain man had two sons: And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.

			Luke 15:11-14

			6.	Those who are good for nothing will be eaten by “the birds”.

			Unfortunately, many seeds that are sown, turn out to be good for nothing. If you make yourself into a good for nothing seed, you will be eaten by the birds. The birds speak of the devil coming to feed on wasted seeds that have fallen by the wayside. The devil makes good for nothing seeds his food. Do you want the devil to make you his food? Do not allow the devil to feed on you.

			Good for nothing seeds are also choked by thorns. Thorns descend on good for nothing seeds and choke out the very life from them. Some of the good for nothing seeds wither away under the heat of the sun. People who are good for nothing are sentenced to wither and to fade away into oblivion.

			A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it. And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture. And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it. And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

			Luke 8:5-8

			Conclusion

			To the making of many books there is no end!

			It is my prayer that, with these few words, you will be encouraged to give yourself wholly to God’s purpose of making you fruitful and useful in His house. From the beginning of creation, as recorded in the book of Genesis, God blessed man to be fruitful. Fruitfulness has always been the purpose of God for mankind. Being “good for nothing” is the exact opposite of God’s will for your life.

			Through this book, you are being restored to your original purpose. You are turning out to be the salt of the earth that has not lost its savour! You will always be useful to God! You will always be needed in this world!

			Salt is always needed and used by men. Therefore you will always be needed and useful in the house of God.

			Beginning from now, your usefulness and fruitfulness will increase every day! No one will ever be able to call you “good for nothing”!





