Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible





CAN’T YOU DO JUST A LITTLE BIT MORE?





Copyright © 2019 Dag Heward-Mills





First published 2019 by Parchment House



1st Printing 2019





Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills at:

Healing Jesus Campaign

Write to: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

Website: www.daghewardmills.org

Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

Twitter: @EvangelistDag





EBOOK ISBN: 978-1-64329-218-2





All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Contents

CHAPTER 1: Joash, King of Israel; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 2: Cain; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 3: Enoch; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 4: Noah; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 5: Abraham; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 6: Joseph; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 7: David; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 8: Luke; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 9: John; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 10: Onesiphorus; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 11: Philippians; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 12: Ephesus; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 13: Smyrna; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 14: Pergamos; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 15: Thyatira; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?

CHAPTER 16: Philadelphia; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?





CHAPTER 1




Joash, King of Israel; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died. And Joash the king of Israel came down unto him, and wept over his face, and said, O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. And Elisha said unto him, Take bow and arrows. And he took unto him bow and arrows. And he said to the king of Israel, Put thine hand upon the bow. And he put his hand upon it: and Elisha put his hands upon the king’s hands. And he said, open the window eastward. And he opened it. Then Elisha said, Shoot. And he shot. And he said, The arrow of the Lord’s deliverance, and the arrow of deliverance from Syria: for thou shalt smite the Syrians in Aphek, till thou have consumed them. And he said, take the arrows. And he took them. And he said unto the king of Israel, Smite upon the ground. And he smote thrice, and stayed. And the man of God was wroth with him, and said, THOU SHOULDEST HAVE SMITTEN FIVE OR SIX TIMES; THEN HADST THOU SMITTEN SYRIA TILL THOU HADST CONSUMED IT: whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice. And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the bands of the Moabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year.

2 Kings 13:14-20



Elisha was angry with King Joash because he could have smitten the ground five or six times but he only smote the ground three times. If only he had smitten the ground a little bit more, he would have had a much greater victory.



King Joash is the quintessential example of someone who could have done just a little bit more. What difference is there between striking the ground three times and striking the ground five times? Just a little bit more and it would have made such a difference! If he had smitten the ground five or six times, he would have destroyed Syria permanently.

Today, there are many little things that we can do that will make a huge difference in the overall effort of building the kingdom of God. Just a little bit more effort, time and money will make a huge difference for the kingdom of God.

I am sure that the apostle John must have read the accounts of Matthew, Mark and Luke. He could have said to himself, “There is no need to write about the life of Jesus.” However, he decided to take up the task and do a little bit more in terms of writing about the ministry of Jesus Christ. Because of John’s writings we know the story of the resurrection of Lazarus from the dead after four days. We also know the story of the healing of the man by the Pool of Bethesda. Through John’s “a little bit more” we know famous words like:



“In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God and the Word was God”

“Except a man be born again he cannot see the kingdom of heaven”

“God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son”



“I am the Good Shepherd”



“I am the Resurrection and the Life”



“I am the Light of the world”



“I and my Father are one.”

”I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly”



“Greater love has no man than this that a man lay down his life”



“I am the Way, the Truth, and the Life”



“Whatever you ask in My name I will do it”



“I am the Vine, you are the branches”

“If you abide in Me, and My words abide in you, you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done to you”

“If you love Me feed My sheep”

Now, suppose for one minute that John had not written his account of Jesus Christ’s life and ministry? Supposing that he had assumed, like many of us are doing today, that there is no need to do a little bit more? John did a little bit more and look at the big difference it has made in the world!

Can you imagine what it would be like if we did not know about Jesus raising Lazarus from the dead after four days? Can you imagine if you did not know that Jesus is the Way, the Truth and the Life just because John was too lazy to write it? Can you imagine if John assumed that Matthew or Mark would mention all these things in their writing and therefore rested on his oars?

Let us consider Luke who had many things to do since he was a doctor. Supposing he had decided not to write his account since Matthew, Mark and John had written gospels already. Some say they were copying from each other. “Why write another copy?” he could have asked. But if Luke had not done just a little bit more and written his account, we would not have known many things.

We would not have heard of the story of the Good Samaritan if Luke had not written his account of Jesus’ life and ministry.

We would never have heard of the story of the Prodigal Son if Luke had not written his account of Jesus’ life and ministry.

We would never have heard the story of the rich man and Lazarus if Luke had not written his account of Jesus’ life and ministry.

What a tragedy and what a deep hole the absence of these amazing stories would have left on Christianity today. Perhaps there are some deep holes that affect the church today because somebody did not write what he should have written.

I believe God is sending a warning to all of us who are living today. Be careful of resting when you should be working. Be careful of praising yourself when your work is not finished. Be careful of early retirement and premature ageing!

God is asking you a question! Can’t you do just a little bit more? This famous question was asked by Joseph G. Morrison (1879-1939) who was a minister of the Church of the Nazarenes. J. G. Morrison was pleading with fellow Nazarenes in the 1930s to support missionaries. He was asking everyone if they could not do just a little bit more to help to support those who had been sent out on a mission.

Today, this question, “Can’t you do just a little bit more?” is even more relevant. A little bit more will make a big difference in the work of God. In my travels, I have noticed a sad trend amongst ministers. Many are happy with what they have. Many ministers do not see the need to do a little bit more for the Lord.

Once a man of God has money, a house, a car and a congregation, he is content to remain as he is. Many years ago, while in Korea, I heard Yonggi Cho saying that the master key to church growth is to have a vision for a huge church. Amazingly, most ministers do not really want a huge church. Most ministers are not fighting for church growth. Neither are they fighting for more and more souls to be won.

This generation of ministers has overseen the decline of the church. Our generation of ministers has the Laodecian spirit of complacency. That spirit speaks today and says, “I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing.”

God’s response to those who say to themselves, “We are okay” is very simple. He says, you don’t know that you are “wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked.” He continues to say, “I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.” (Revelation 3:17-18).

You see, there is always a little bit more that you can do. There is no need to settle down and say, “I am rich and I do not need anything.” You do need something! You are not really rich and you are not really as stable and as safe as you think.

Until you are in your grave, knocking on the wooden boards of your coffin, there will always be a little bit more that you can do for God. Can’t you win a few more souls even though you have won many souls for the Lord already?

I know you have already built a church. Can’t you plant another church? Can’t you do a little bit more?

I know you have held crusades and campaigns for Jesus but can’t you do a little bit more? Perhaps you can have one or two more crusades. Instead of resting now why don’t you rest in peace later?

I know you have written books. Can’t you write one more book? I know you have held conferences. Can’t you do a little bit more?

I know you have built a church. Can’t you build another one? When you are in your grave you will wish you could come out and build another church.

I know you have prospered and have helped the work of God. Can’t you do a little bit more? Can’t you give a little bit more? J.G. Morrison was pleading with the congregants to give a little bit more to support missionaries.

Perhaps you have built some church buildings. Perhaps you have helped to accomplish things for God. Can’t you do a little bit more? Perhaps we can build a few more church buildings before we die.

Dear friend, don’t deceive yourself! You can do a little bit more! If you visit a pastor who is failing and decreasing in ministry, you will discover that he can do a little bit more than what he is doing. Most people are not doing as much as they could. Most of us can do a little bit more! A little bit more prayer and a little bit more effort will make a big difference. Why don’t you give a little bit more time to the study of the Word and to achieving of your spiritual goals?

Jesus spoke about going the extra mile. Unfortunately today, people are not even going their first mile, much less the extra mile. If you would add a few more yards you may achieve the goal of going at least one mile for Jesus.





CHAPTER 2




Cain; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




By faith ABEL OFFERED UNTO GOD A MORE EXCELLENT SACRIFICE THAN CAIN, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: and by it he being dead yet speaketh.

Hebrews 11:4

Doing a little bit more will make a whole lot of difference in your life and ministry.

Abel did a little bit more! Abel gave a better offering than Cain by doing a little bit more. God is not impressed with vegetable salad offerings. God wants an offering of life. The life is in the blood. Without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins. The blood sacrifice is what God desires from man.

Unfortunately, Cain couldn’t be bothered to give God what God really liked. If Cain had done a little bit more towards God, he may still have been alive today. Cain could not be bothered to do a little bit more. He just wanted to give something average. He just wanted to finish with the giving of offerings.

Abel, on the other hand, did a little bit more than Cain and it made all the difference. God was pleased with him. Indeed, both of them brought offerings from their work. However, Abel tried to please God.

Today, you must ask yourself if you cannot give a little bit more and do a little bit more towards God’s work. Perhaps when you get to heaven you will regret how you could have done a little bit more on earth. Most people can do a little bit more but simply do what they can get by with. Giving a little bit more money, paying your tithes and being a little more diligent in helping God’s work may make such a difference.



If you were informed that you were going to die, you would want to give a little bit more towards eternity. One day, one of my church members was informed by the doctors that he was going to die in a few months. Shortly after the doctors informed him of his impending death, he called me to his house and gave a large offering towards evangelism. I urged him not to give this offering because he would need a lot of money to pay medical bills. But he insisted on giving it. Eternity was looming and he felt that he should do a little bit more. Before the reality of death struck, he did not sense the need to do more. Dear friend, there is no need to wait until eternity looms. It is time to do a little bit more. Do not wait till you are dying before you give a little more or serve God a little harder.

There are always two kinds of people: an Abel or a Cain. Those who do what is convenient and those who do a little bit more! To please someone, you always have to do a little bit more.

Today, most women do not come out of their houses with their natural hair. They do a little something to their hair. They know that a little bit of effort applied to their hair will make them look more beautiful. Most people do not come out of their houses with their natural smells. A quick bath and some perfume make them completely different people.

The concept of doing “a little bit more” is applied in other areas of life with outstanding results. It is time for you to do a little bit more of giving and sacrificing for God’s work.





CHAPTER 3




Enoch; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.

Hebrews 11:5

I believe that Enoch is an example of someone who did a little bit more. Enoch had this testimony that he pleased God. To please someone you always have to do a little bit more. Many relationships break down because people are not prepared to do a little bit more.

When a relationship between a boy and a girl is at its max, both of them are doing a little bit more. You will find prompt responses to text messages when the relationship is really hot. When the relationship is dying or dead, you will find several hours or sometimes days between the time a text message is received and the time the answer comes. When a relationship is really hot, people are always checking their phones to see if a message has come from the important lover. When things are dead, they will say things like, “My phone was charging! I left my phone in the office! My phone was on silent!” When the relationship is dying, a little bit more effort is no more exerted to keep the relationship alive and pleasing.

Enoch pleased God! The key to pleasing God is to please Him in big things and in little things.

Indeed, the key to pleasing people is in doing little things as well as big things. Good relationships come by doing both little things and big things. Once I was waiting on God and I remember listening to a message by Derek Prince. He spoke about when God called him. He said God told him, “You must please me in little things and also in big things.” Those words went through my heart. I realised how important it was to please God in little things and also in big things. I began to search my life to see the little things and the big things that God had asked me to do.

Indeed, pleasing anyone will always involve little things and big things. You may do big things but if you leave out the little things, you will not please the person you are trying to please. If you want to please God, you will have to obey Him in big things as well as little things.

For Enoch to have pleased God, he must have done the big things as well as the little things. Marriages break down because people do not believe the little things that their partners warn them about. Some men may think the big things are to provide school fees and pay the bills.

However, the small things like saying, “I love you” or “Happy birthday” may be equally important to someone. Being nice and caring may be a small but very important thing.

Some ladies may think the big things are to provide breakfast and dinner. However, the little things of smiling and being cheerful may be just as important as cooking dinner. Being clean or having a bath may seem like a small thing to you. Having sex and being excited about it may seem a small thing to you. Yet, it is both the big things and the little things that make a person pleasing. God’s call to please Him is to serve Him in little things as well as in big things.

To be pleasing to someone will always require just a little bit more than being in your natural state.

I do not believe that Enoch lived a natural life. His whole life was oriented towards pleasing God. Never forget this truth: to serve God properly is to serve Him in little things as well as in big things. He that is faithful in little is also faithful in much. When you please God in little things you also please Him in much.





CHAPTER 4




Noah; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment; And spared not the old world, but saved NOAH THE EIGHTH PERSON, A PREACHER OF RIGHTEOUSNESS, bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly;

2 Peter 2:4-5

Noah was a righteous preacher. He probably had a church with a good congregation. If he did not have a church, he probably was a conference speaker moving about from place to place preaching about God’s righteousness.

A Little Bit More: Build me a Boat

BUT NOAH FOUND GRACE IN THE EYES OF THE LORD. These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth. MAKE THEE AN ARK OF GOPHER WOOD; ROOMS SHALT THOU MAKE IN THE ARK, AND SHALT PITCH IT WITHIN AND WITHOUT WITH PITCH.

Genesis 6:8-14

One day, God came to Noah and asked him to do a little bit more. What else could Noah do after being a preacher of righteousness in a very wicked world? But God wanted him to do just a little bit more than he had done all his life.

He wanted a boat! Of all things, God wanted Noah to build a boat!

Perhaps God wants you to build something for Him. In addition to all the things you have done in your life, God wants you to do a little bit more. The little bit more may be the reason why you will be remembered. Today, Noah’s preaching is not remembered. His sermon notes are not found anywhere! In fact, no one knows what he preached about. Noah is remembered for the great work of building the ark.

If Noah had rejected the idea of doing a little bit more, we would not even know his name today. It is important to respond with fear to God’s instruction to you. If He wants you to build something, please make sure you build it.

By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, MOVED WITH FEAR, PREPARED AN ARK to the saving of his house; by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.

Hebrews 11:7

What you build for God may end up preserving your ministry. There are churches that do not exist today because they preached but did not build anything. There are pastors who disobeyed instructions to build churches and have thereby quenched great ministries. Lazy and phlegmatic men, who refuse to rise up and build, destroy God’s work without intending to.

A Little Bit More: Catch Animals

AND OF EVERY LIVING THING OF ALL FLESH, TWO OF EVERY SORT SHALT THOU BRING INTO THE ARK, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be male and female. Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.

Genesis 6:19-20

After being a preacher of righteousness and building a boat, God still required a little bit more from Noah. He wanted Noah to catch as many animals as possible and create a floating zoo. Noah could probably not believe his ears as he listened to this new instruction. Noah duly embarked on his new quest of catching birds and animals of all sorts.

I am sure you realise that catching animals alive is very different from killing them To catch a living tiger is very different from killing a tiger. I should think that very soon, Noah was an expert at catching living lions, living leopards, living tigers, living giraffes, living antelopes and the like. The world must have watched in wonder as he gathered the most exotic collection of wild animals. For some of the animals perhaps he was to catch seven pairs and for others he was just to catch a pair.

A Little Bit More: Get Food for Animals

And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

Genesis 6:21

The next project for Noah was to find the food that he needed to keep all these animals alive. This would involve getting live prey for the predators and grass for the grazing animals. No one should underestimate the mammoth task that was given to Noah. Meanwhile, this was all in addition to Noah having served God faithfully and being a preacher of righteousness for many years.

A Little Bit More: Move to Live in the Ark

And the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

Genesis 7:1

The next thing God required was for Noah to move from his house and live in the ark. He had to leave his home, his furniture, his possessions and live in the boat he had built. He was to take his family to live in the midst of dangerous wild animals which would be making all sorts of frightening sounds in the night. This little move was all that God required of Noah. All this was in addition to his faithfulness and righteous preaching for all these years.

Today, God is asking you to do the same things that he asked Noah to do; a little bit more! “Can’t you do just a little bit more?” is the question of the day. A little bit more will make a big difference. A little bit more in the life of Noah made a big difference. If Noah had built the ark but had not caught the animals, he would not have achieved God’s will.

If Noah had caught the animals but had not fed them, all his good works would have come to nought. Be like Noah and do a little bit more! Do not accept the thought that God’s instructions are madness. God’s word is not madness. God will tell you what to do and He expects you to do it. Be like Noah and do whatever God tells you to do.





CHAPTER 5




Abraham; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




Now the Lord had said unto Abram, GET THEE OUT OF THY COUNTRY, AND FROM THY KINDRED, AND FROM THY FATHER’S HOUSE, unto a land that I will shew thee: And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.

Genesis 12:1-3

God is always looking for a little bit more and Abraham is a good example of someone who did a little bit more. Abraham got to know the Lord, and I believe that changed his life forever. However, one day, God required a little bit more from Abraham.

A Little Bit More: Leave Your Family

Now the Lord had said unto Abram, GET THEE OUT OF THY COUNTRY, AND FROM THY KINDRED, AND FROM THY FATHER’S HOUSE, unto a land that I will shew thee: And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing: And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.

Genesis 12:1-3

Abraham’s service to God now required a little bit more. Leave your family, leave your country and leave all that is familiar behind. You may never please God until you do the little extra that God requires of you. You may call yourself a servant of God, but what God may require of you will be to leave your family and your country.

A Little Bit More: Circumcise Yourself

And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham’s house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him. AND ABRAHAM WAS NINETY YEARS OLD AND NINE, WHEN HE WAS CIRCUMCISED IN THE FLESH OF HIS FORESKIN. And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. IN THE SELFSAME DAY WAS ABRAHAM CIRCUMCISED, AND ISHMAEL HIS SON. AND ALL THE MEN OF HIS HOUSE, BORN IN THE HOUSE, AND BOUGHT WITH MONEY OF THE STRANGER, WERE CIRCUMCISED WITH HIM.

Genesis 17:23-27

God had a “little request” to make. He wanted Abraham to be circumcised. He wanted the whole family to be circumcised. This painful cutting of the skin on the penis is what God required from Abraham in his old age. It seemed that serving God, leaving his family, leaving his country was not enough. Abraham, can’t you do just a little bit more?

God wanted just a little bit more commitment. He wanted a commitment in the private parts of Abraham and his family. He wanted Abraham to go through the pain and the humiliation of circumcision. What an amazing request from God! Was leaving his home not enough? Was leaving his country not enough? God seems to always require just a little bit more. Do not ever be tired of serving God! Do not ever be tired of doing just a little bit more! A little bit more may be all you need to do to get yourself into the favourable reports of heaven.

A Little Bit More: Have Sex with an Old Lady

And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door, which was behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, AFTER I AM WAXED OLD SHALL I HAVE PLEASURE, MY LORD BEING OLD ALSO? And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old? Is any thing too hard for the Lord? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh. And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

Genesis 18:9-16

Abraham still had to do a little bit more after leaving his family and getting himself circumcised. Abraham had obeyed God by leaving his family and going on the mission field. Now God was requiring of him to have sex with his wife, an old lady. Abraham’s old wife reacted to this instruction. She said, “After I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure?” She said to herself, “Will my husband Abraham be able to do this?” Do not think that Abraham gave birth to Isaac without having sex. Sara’s reaction to God’s command was because two withered and elderly people were required to have the pleasure of young people. Abraham was required to do a little bit more: Have sex, make love and have pleasure! The ninety-year-old man obeyed God in having active sex and pleasure with his postmenopausal wife.

This may sound strange to some. There are many times that God requires people to have sex. It may be a little thing that lasts a few minutes but it makes a lot of difference. The refusal and the failure to have sex is the cause of many evils in our world. Many marriages undergo subtle erosion because couples will not obey the word of God.

A Little Bit More: Kill Your Son

And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, TAKE NOW THY SON, THINE ONLY SON ISAAC, WHOM THOU LOVEST, and get thee into the land of Moriah; AND OFFER HIM THERE FOR A BURNT OFFERING UPON ONE OF THE MOUNTAINS which I will tell thee of.

Genesis 22:1-2

The next request was even more bizarre. Abraham had served God all his life. He had left his family, his country and his home. He had forced his entire family to be circumcised, as grown-ups. He had behaved himself like a very young man towards his old wife, having pleasure and doing things he had long forgotten how to do. I am sure he thought to himself, “This is it! There is nothing else to do for the Lord. I have finished my work and I have fulfilled my ministry.” But it was not to be so.

God wanted just a little bit more. “Please sacrifice your son to me.” I am sure Abraham could not believe his ears. This was an outrageous request. “I must be having a bizarre auditory hallucination. I must be suffering from schizophrenia or some other serious mental illness”, he must have thought. But God maintained His request. Sacrifice your son to me! Indeed, Abraham did just that. At the end of his life, that little step to sacrifice his son led to the greatest blessing of Abraham’s life and ministry.

Abraham is one of the greatest examples of the blessings of doing just a little bit more. Don’t hold back! Do a little bit more! You can do a little bit more for God!





CHAPTER 6




Joseph; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt. And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls. And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same. And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much, until he left numbering; for it was without number.

Genesis 41:46-49

Joseph is another example of someone who did a little bit more. His commission was to save the land of Egypt from famine. He built storehouses and laid up food against the famine. But Joseph did a little bit more. He went further and did much more for Pharaoh. By doing a little bit more, he established himself as one of the wisest prime ministers of all time. He saved two nations (Egypt and Israel) from annihilation. He not only saved a nation from starvation but also brought great stability to the government of Egypt.

How Did Joseph Do a Little Bit More?

1.	Joseph did a little bit more: He took all the money from all the Egyptians for Pharaoh. He made Pharaoh the richest king of all.

And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine. And JOSEPH GATHERED UP ALL THE MONEY THAT WAS FOUND IN THE LAND OF EGYPT, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought: and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh’s house.

Genesis 47:13-14

2.	Joseph did a little bit more: He bought all the cattle, all the horses, and all the flocks, herds and asses for Pharaoh. He made Pharaoh the owner of every single livestock in Egypt.

And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth. AND JOSEPH SAID, GIVE YOUR CATTLE; AND I WILL GIVE YOU FOR YOUR CATTLE, IF MONEY FAIL. And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year.

Genesis 47:15-17

3.	Joseph did a little bit more: He bought all the land in the entire country of Egypt for Pharaoh.

When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands: Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? BUY US AND OUR LAND FOR BREAD, AND WE AND OUR LAND WILL BE SERVANTS UNTO PHARAOH: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that the land be not desolate. And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them: so the land became Pharaoh’s.

Genesis 47:18-20

4.	Joseph did a little bit more: He relocated everybody in the country to establish Pharaoh’s ownership over the land.

AND AS FOR THE PEOPLE, HE REMOVED THEM TO CITIES FROM ONE END OF THE BORDERS OF EGYPT EVEN TO THE OTHER END THEREOF. Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.

Genesis 47:21-22

5.	Joseph did a little bit more: He made all citizens of Egypt slaves of Pharaoh.

Then Joseph said unto the people, BEHOLD, I HAVE BOUGHT YOU THIS DAY and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall sow the land.

Genesis 47:23

6.	Joseph did a little bit more: He instituted a twenty per cent tax for Pharaoh.

And it shall come to pass in the increase, THAT YE SHALL GIVE THE FIFTH PART UNTO PHARAOH, AND FOUR PARTS SHALL BE YOUR OWN, for seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households, and for food for your little ones. . . And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth part; except the land of the priests only, which became not Pharaoh’s.

Genesis 47:24, 26

7.	Joseph did a little bit more: He secured a very good space for the nation of Israel.

And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied exceedingly.

Genesis 47:27

8.	Joseph did a little bit more: He prophesied about the future and gave instructions to the people on the future migration of Israel out of Egypt. He even gave instructions about how his bones should be transported out of Egypt.

And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.

Genesis 50:24-25





CHAPTER 7




David; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




And it came to pass, when the king sat in his house, and the Lord had given him rest round about from all his enemies; That the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in an house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains. And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thine heart; for the Lord is with thee.

2 Samuel 7:1-3

David is famous for doing a little bit more. God had blessed him and he was established as king. But he wanted to do a little bit more and build a house for God. This attempt to do a little bit more really touched the Lord.

When the king sat in his house, realising that God had given him rest, he did not just continue to enjoy the rest but endeavoured to do a little bit more for God. Many ministers become established in the ministry and from then on, live a life of complacency. Over the years, I have noticed how people are happy to do little or nothing to improve their churches. Once they have a house, a car and a congregation, they turn the switch of life off. There seems to be no more work for their idle hands.

Not so with King David! When God gave him rest from all the fights he had undertaken for God, he sought to do a little bit more. He wanted to build a temple. Nathan, the prophet was surprised about the idea that David had come up with. A battle-hardened commander who had seen much bloodshed wanted to build a glorious temple for the worship of God. Who had ever heard of such a thing? But David wanted to do a little bit more.

Don’t you want to do a little bit more? Can’t you see that great people always want to do a little bit more? The people who love God always want to go an extra mile. God was pleased and impressed. David’s great reward came as a result of this desire to do a little bit more. God promised to establish his seed after him. This great promise was fulfilled because David attempted to do just a little bit more. Even the desire to do a little bit more was noticed and rewarded.

Now it was in the heart of David my father to build an house for the name of the Lord God of Israel. But the Lord said to David my father, Forasmuch as it was in thine heart to build an house for my name, THOU DIDST WELL IN THAT IT WAS IN THINE HEART: Notwithstanding thou shalt not build the house; but thy son which shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the house for my name. The Lord therefore hath performed his word that he hath spoken: FOR I AM RISEN UP IN THE ROOM OF DAVID MY FATHER, AND AM SET ON THE THRONE OF ISRAEL, AS THE LORD PROMISED, and have built the house for the name of the Lord God of Israel.

2 Chronicles 6:7-10





CHAPTER 8




Luke; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us, Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses, and ministers of the word; IT SEEMED GOOD TO ME ALSO, HAVING HAD PERFECT UNDERSTANDING OF ALL THINGS FROM THE VERY FIRST, TO WRITE UNTO THEE in order, most excellent Theophilus, That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thou hast been instructed.

Luke 1:1-4

Luke declared that others had already written about Jesus Christ. Others had already written out the life story of Jesus Christ. In spite of this, Luke thought that it was a good idea for him to also write his version of the gospel of Christ.

Luke decided to do a little bit more and write down what he had seen and learnt. What a big difference he made. We would not know many things if Luke had not bothered to do a little bit more.

Before I started out in the ministry of writing books, the devil said to me, “Your books are not necessary! No one will read them!” Satan said to me, “Everyone reads Kenneth Hagin books and you are a nobody from Africa. No one reads books written by men from Africa.” These words were enough to discourage me. I felt there was no need to write anything. However, I have been amazed at the response of people to my books. Even though Kenneth Hagin has published millions of books, it is important that I do a little bit more.

Many times, we think there is no need to do our little bit. Matthew, Mark, Luke and John each wrote a gospel. Was that really necessary or was it an overkill? I don’t think it was an overkill. Thinking that what you are doing is unnecessary will keep you from doing the will of God. It will definitely keep you from doing a little bit more.

Think about the contribution of Luke to the whole world by doing just a little bit more. Deciding to write one more account of Jesus’ life and ministry has done so much for the body of Christ. Let us take a look at the little bit more that Luke did and what fruits it has yielded.

How Did Luke Do a Little Bit More?

Through Luke’s efforts we are so blessed to know all these things which are found nowhere else in the gospels. I can mention at least fifteen things which Matthew, Mark and John completely left out. Let us see how Luke did a little bit more and blessed our lives so much. These are his unique stories, teachings and parables that he wrote down. No one else wrote about these accounts or remembered them. Without Luke doing a little bit more we would never have known these things. Luke is the one who wrote about certain outstanding miracles. No one else reported them. It is Luke who wrote about the raising of the dead young man in the city of Nain (Luke 7:11-16). It is Luke who wrote about the woman who was loosed from her infirmity (Luke 13:10-13).

1.	Luke gave us the story of the Good Samaritan. It is not found in any other book.

And Jesus answering said, a certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead. And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side. And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him, And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee. Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves? And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.

Luke 10:30-37

2.	Luke gave us the teaching on Importunity. It is found nowhere else.

And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves; For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him? And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee. I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth.

Luke 11:5-8

3.	Luke gave us the story of the Rich Fool.

And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully: And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits? And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods. And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided? So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.

Luke 12:16-21

4.	Luke gave us the teaching on the fig tree in the vineyard.

He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none. Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground? And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it: And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down.

Luke 13:6-9

5.	Luke gave us the teaching on the seating of the wedding guests.

And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms; saying unto them, When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room; lest a more honourable man than thou be bidden of him; And he that bade thee and him come and say to thee, Give this man place; and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room. But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room; that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, go up higher: then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee. For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

Luke 14:7-11

6.	Luke gave us the story of the cost of building a tower.

For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it? Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him, Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish.

Luke 14:28-30

7.	Luke gave us the story of the cost of going to war.

Or what king, going to make war against another king, sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand?

Luke 14:31

8.	Luke gave us the teaching on the lost sheep.

What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it? And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.

Luke 15:4-6

9.	Luke gave us the teaching on the lost coin.

Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it? And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I had lost.

Luke 15:8-9

10.	Luke gave us the teaching on the prodigal son.

And he said, a certain man had two sons: And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living. And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want. And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine. And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.

And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father’s have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger! I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee, And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants. And he arose, and came to his father.

But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him. And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son. But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet: And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry: For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry. Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing.

And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant. And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound. And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his father out, and intreated him. And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends: But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf. And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine. It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.

Luke 15:11-32

11.	Luke gave us the teaching on the story of the unjust servant.

And he said also unto his disciples, there was a certain rich man, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. And he called him, and said unto him, how is it that I hear this of thee? Give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest be no longer steward.

Then the steward said within himself, what shall I do? for my lord taketh away from me the stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I am ashamed. I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses. So he called every one of his lord’s debtors unto him, and said unto the first, how much owest thou unto my lord? 6 And he said, An hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty. Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and write fourscore. And the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely: for the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light.

And I say unto you, make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations.

Luke 16:1-9

12.	Luke gave us the story of the rich man and Lazarus.

There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day: And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores, And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man’s table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.

And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham’s bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried; And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom. And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame. But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.

And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.

Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father’s house: For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment. Abraham saith unto him, they have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them. And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent. And he said unto him, if they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.

Luke 16:19-31

13.	Luke gave us the teaching that the reward for hard work is more work.

But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle, will say unto him by and by, when he is come from the field, Go and sit down to meat? And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink? Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not. So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do.

Luke 17:7-10

14.	Luke gave us the teaching on the shameless widow.

There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.

Luke 18:2-5

15.	Luke gave us the story on the proud prayer.

Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

Luke 18:10-14

It is evident that the apostle Luke contributed greatly to the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ by considering that it was probably good for him to do a little bit more in addition to what Matthew, Mark and John had done.

Forasmuch as MANY HAVE TAKEN IN HAND TO SET FORTH IN ORDER A DECLARATION OF THOSE THINGS WHICH ARE MOST SURELY BELIEVED AMONG US, Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses, and ministers of the word; IT SEEMED GOOD TO ME ALSO, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thou hast been instructed.

Luke 1:1-4





CHAPTER 9




John; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




John’s decision to write one more account of Jesus’ life and ministry has given us teachings that our very lives depend on. Let us take a look at a little bit more that John did and what fruits it has yielded.

John decided to write about the life of Jesus. John could have decided to be quiet and say nothing, since he was the youngest. If he wrote unnecessary things, he would have been criticised by everyone.

But John decided to do a little bit more and write down all that he knew about Jesus, all that he had seen and learnt. What a big difference he made. We would not know many things if John had not bothered to do a little bit more.

Before I started out in the ministry of writing books, satan said to me, “Your books are not necessary! No one will read them!” Today, I have published millions of books with powerful testimonies from around the world.

Many times, we think there is no need to do our little bit. Matthew, Mark, Luke and John each wrote a gospel. Think about the contribution of John to many lives in the whole world by doing just a little bit more.

How Did John Do a Little Bit More?

Through John’s effort we are so blessed to know all the things that are found nowhere else in the gospels. John said many things that no one else said. Let us see how John did a little bit more and blessed our lives so much.

No one else wrote these things. No one else remembered the things that John remembered.

Let us now look at a few of the amazing details that we benefit from because John did a little bit more and bothered to write down some of these things.

The Writings of John

1.	Through John we learn that Jesus was in the beginning with God.

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made. In him was life; and the life was the light of men.

John 1:1-4

2.	Through John we learn that we have been given the power to become the sons of God.

But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name:

John 1:12

3.	Through John, we learn that we must be born again.

Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.

John 3:3

4.	Through John, we learn that God so loved the world that He gave His only Son.

For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

John 3:16

5.	Through John, we learn that God is a spirit.

God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.

John 4:24

6.	Through John, we learn that we must finish the work of God.

Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.

John 4:34

7.	Through John we learn that Jesus is the bread of life.

I am that bread of life.

John 6:48

8.	Through John we learn that whoever eats Jesus’ flesh and drinks His blood has eternal life.

Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.

John 6:54

9.	Through John we learn that out of your belly shall flow rivers of living water.

He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.

John 7:38

10.	Through John we learn that God will be with you when you do the things that please Him.

And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.

John 8:29

11.	Through John we learn that Jesus came to give us abundant life.

The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

John 10:10

12.	Through John we learn that Jesus is the Good Shepherd.

I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.

John 10:11

13.	Through John we learn that unless a seed falls to the ground, it will not bear fruit.

Verily, verily, I say unto you, except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.

John 12:24

14.	Through John we learn that we can do greater works.

Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father.

John 14:12

15.	Through John we learn that if a man loves God, he will keep His commandments.

He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.

John 14:21

16.	Through John we learn about the comforter.

But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.

John 14:26

17.	Through John we learn that if we abide in Jesus, we can ask what we want.

If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you.

John 15:7

18.	Through John we learn about the greater love.

Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.

John 15:13

19.	Through John we learn that Jesus has chosen us and ordained us.

Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.

John 15:16

20.	Through John we learn about the last prayer of Jesus on earth.

These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee:

John 17:1

Without John doing a little bit more we would never know these things. Also, no one wrote about the miracles that John wrote about. Imagine that! Four outstanding miracles were mentioned by John. No one else mentioned these miracles in their accounts. For instance would not know about the raising of Lazarus from the dead if John had not done a little bit more.

The Miracles of the Book of John

1.	The healing of the nobleman’s son.

So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum. When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son: for he was at the point of death.

Then said Jesus unto him, except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe. The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die. Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way. And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told him, saying, Thy son liveth. Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him, yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him. So the father knew that it was at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house.

John 4:46-53

2.	The healing of the man by the Pool of Bethesda.

Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches. In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water. For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years. When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole? The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me. Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk. And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked: and on the same day was the sabbath.

John 5:2-9

3.	The healing of the man who was born blind.

And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth. And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind? Jesus answered, neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay, And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing.

John 9:1-7

4.	The raising of Lazarus from the dead.

Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled, And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him! And some of them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died? Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.

Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days. Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God? Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.

And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.

John 11:32-44

Make sure you do not trivialize what God has given you. Do not set it aside! Fulfill your calling! Obey what the Holy Spirit is telling you!





CHAPTER 10




Onesiphorus; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus; for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain: But, when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me. The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day: and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.

2 Timothy 1:16-18

Onesiphorus did a little bit more! Onesiphorus is mentioned for all time in the Bible. He is not mentioned in the Bible because he built a great cathedral. He is not mentioned in the Bible because he donated millions of dollars to build a university. He is mentioned in the Bible because he brought refreshments to Paul.

In spite of all that he was and all that he had achieved in his life, he added the care of Apostle Paul to his life’s work. Paul was in prison and was at the mercy of those who would remember him and minister to him.

Orthodox tradition tells us that Onesiphorus was one of the seventy disciples chosen and sent by Jesus to preach. Both the orthodox and Roman Catholic churches hold that Onesiphorus died as a martyr not far from Ephesus.

Apostle Paul praised Onesiphorus for his hospitality, his kindness and his courage. A little hospitality, a little kindness and a little courage by Onesiphorus earned him a good reward.

Perhaps his ministry of preaching and teaching was the main thing that he was doing. Yet he found the time to refresh Paul and minister to him.

A little bit more by Onesiphorus earned him a place in the Bible.

Perhaps a little bit more will earn you a place in the history books of eternity.





CHAPTER 11




Philippians; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




For even in Thessalonica YE SENT ONCE AND AGAIN unto my necessity. Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odour of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing to God. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus.

Philippians 4:16-19

The Philippians are well known for giving a little bit more than others. They sent money to apostle Paul more than once. The Philippians did a little bit more for Apostle Paul. They gave “once and again”.

“Again “ was the little bit more. This little bit more earned them the famous blessing of “My God shall supply all your needs.”

There are many people who can give a little bit more than they do. They just throw crumbs into the offering bowl. But there is much more that they could do if they really wanted to help the work of God.

There are people who can give a thousand dollars. However, many of these people are not prepared to lift a finger and do a little bit more. They just reach out and pick the nearest coin in their wallets.

Many people are prepared to do things for themselves but when it comes to God’s work they do not want to do a little bit more. They cannot remember to pay a pledge. They do not even bother to try to do anything for God. They cannot lift a finger or exert any effort towards God’s work.

It is important that you decide to give a little bit more than you are giving. One day, whilst preparing to give an offering to a man of God, I felt the Holy Spirit whisper to my heart; “Can’t you do just a little bit more? Give this much.” He said to me. “Never give less than this amount when you are giving to my servants!”

From that time, I began to give a little bit more to God’s servants. Shortly after that, I noticed a change in the way people honoured me. Everyone who honoured me seemed to do a little bit more.

One day, I visited a church and preached powerfully. It was a very large church with a blessed pastor. When I finished preaching, they blessed me with “a little bit less” than they had blessed me with before. The honour was a little bit less.

Indeed, whilst I was preaching, I had felt that I was not so welcome any more. “A little bit less” offering was all that was needed to confirm that I was not really wanted. Previously, the pastor was happy to do a little bit more but now his attitude had changed. Ensuing events confirmed all that I had thought. I was right when I interpreted that a little bit less meant I was a little bit less welcome.

You cannot say that your offering means nothing. A little bit more always means something and a little bit less also means something.

It is time to honour your pastors with a little bit more. It is time to honour your church with a little bit more. It is time to honour God’s work with a little bit more of your money. A little bit more means a little bit more love.

When you give a little bit more, you become like the Philippians and you will receive “a little bit more” blessings from God. Blessings such as “My God shall supply all your needs according to His riches in glory in Christ Jesus.”





CHAPTER 12




Ephesus; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




Unto THE ANGEL OF THE CHURCH OF EPHESUS write; These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks; I KNOW THY WORKS, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil: and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars: And hast borne, and hast patience, and for my name’s sake hast laboured, and hast not fainted. NEVERTHELESS I HAVE SOMEWHAT AGAINST THEE, BECAUSE THOU HAST LEFT THY FIRST LOVE.

Revelation 2:1-4

God sent a message to the Ephesian church. They had great works! They had labour! They had patience! They could not bear evil people! They were not deceived by people who pretended to be apostles but who were rather liars. They laboured but did not faint!

But God wanted a little bit more from the Ephesians. He wanted a bit of first love. What is first love? First love is different from ordinary love. It is the love of young lovers who are madly in love with each other.

God was speaking to His bride and saying, “I remember the love of thine espousals. You used to chase Me. You used to look for Me. You used to call Me. You went after Me. You hunted for Me. You did not just sit there and wait. You did not just say “Yes” if I called. You came looking for Me. You did not just open up to Me if I asked you to. You came hunting, searching and seeking for Me.”

First love is described in Jeremiah.

Go and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the Lord; I remember thee, the kindness of thy youth, the LOVE OF THINE ESPOUSALS, when THOU WENTEST AFTER ME in the wilderness, in a land that was not sown. Israel was holiness unto the Lord, and the firstfruits of his increase: all that devour him shall offend; evil shall come upon them, saith the Lord.

Jeremiah 2:2-3

It is amazing that God was not satisfied with the Ephesian Christians. These were Christians with great works, great labour and great patience. These were righteous people who could not stand evil at all. Yet, God required from them a little bit more; first love!

It is quite difficult to minister to people who do not love God with first love. People without first love are lifeless, dull and uninteresting. God wants people who are excited about Him. Wouldn’t you want to marry someone who is excited about you? Would you want to come home to someone who is angry and suspicious? Would you want to have a dead piece of timber in the bed with you? Everyone wants life, happiness, excitement and joy. People without first love have stopped giggling, laughing, chatting and communicating. Above all, people without first love have stopped flowing spontaneously.

Can’t you do just a little bit more? Can’t you flow a little bit more? Can’t you be a little happier? Can’t you show a little more excitement? Can’t you be a little more cheerful? Can’t you be a little more grateful? Can’t you show a little more love? Can’t you be a little kinder? Can’t you show some first love?

It is nice for you to sit in church but if you were a little more spontaneous and excited, it would make a lot of difference.

It is time to do a little bit more!





CHAPTER 13




Smyrna; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write; These things saith the first and the last, which was dead, and is alive; I KNOW THY WORKS, and tribulation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan. Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer: behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have tribulation ten days: BE THOU FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH, and I will give thee a crown of life.

Revelation 2:8-10

God sent a message to the Smyrna church. They had great works! They had great achievements! They had been through tribulations! They had survived poverty. They had endured the blasphemy of those from the synagogue of satan. What great achievements these were!

Yet God asked for a little bit more. A little bit more of what? A little bit more faithfulness! Faithfulness in the face of ten days of tribulation is all that was required (Revelation 2:10). Think of a lifetime of faithful service to God. All that the Lord wanted from them was another ten days of faithful service.

There are many churches that need a little more faithfulness and a little more loyalty. Many churches have a good pastor, a powerful anointing, a powerful congregation. But they need a little more loyalty.

Without loyalty and faithfulness, your church becomes a zoo of rebellious people. A church of three thousand people can be reduced to a church of a hundred members because of disloyalty. I know a pastor who claimed that he could have had fifty thousand members if it had not been for a lack of faithfulness.

You can see that a little bit of loyalty is required in order to finish God’s work. Can’t you do just a little bit more?

Can’t you be a little bit more faithful? Can’t you survive a little longer?

Can’t you introduce loyalty and faithfulness into the church? Sometimes a church is just about to grow and break forth, but people miss the day of great things because of a lack of faithfulness.





CHAPTER 14




Pergamos; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write; These things saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges; I KNOW THY WORKS, and where thou dwellest, even where Satan’s seat is: and thou holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith, even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth. But I have a few things against thee, BECAUSE THOU HAST THERE THEM THAT HOLD THE DOCTRINE OF BALAAM, who taught Balac to cast a stumblingblock before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication.

Revelation 2:12-14

The church in Pergamos was a great church. It was known for great works. They were the church that was known for surviving and prevailing where satan’s seat was. Can you imagine prospering and growing as a ministry in satan’s headquarters? That is a great achievement! Yet, God required a little bit more from the church in Pergamos. A little bit more! God wanted them to drive out the people who had the doctrine of Balaam.

Perhaps, you have done many things for God but you have not been an enemy to God’s enemy. God wants you to be the enemy of His enemy! I remember a friend who was kind, loving, patient and had a big heart.He was an anointed servant of the Lord. However, when I was attacked by men with a false doctrine, he held back and did not help to wipe them out. He left me at their mercy and did not stand with me. Unfortunately, that little act of solidarity that he failed to show changed our relationship.

God may require you to take a stand and fight the enemies of the gospel openly and without fear or favour. I would not like to have an assistant who is not prepared to fight the enemy and drive out unwanted people.

It is nice for you to preach and sing so well; but a little bit more strength against our common enemy may also be required.

Can’t you do just a little bit more by taking a bold confident stand against the enemy?





CHAPTER 15




Thyatira; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass; I KNOW THY WORKS, and charity, and service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last to be more than the first. Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee, because THOU SUFFEREST THAT WOMAN JEZEBEL, WHICH CALLETH HERSELF A PROPHETESS, to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols.

Revelation 2:18-20

The Thyatira church was a great church. It was a church of great works! It was a church of great charity! It was a church of great faith! It was a church of great service! And it was a church of great patience!

But God wanted a little bit more. What was the little bit more that He wanted? He wanted them to remove a woman called Jezebel who was seducing God’s servants. It was nice of the Thyatira church to do all these great works. Everyone was blessed by the Thyatira church.

But a little bit more was required of them. Get rid of Jezebel! Fight that woman no matter the rank or title that she holds. You see, nothing can replace the act of removing certain people from God’s house. Many people do not realize that part of our calling is to fight. Part of fighting is to have enemies. In this case, the enemy was no other than a Jezebel. This woman was causing people to fall from the high and lofty ranks of ministry into the low level of sin.

One day, a young lady entered our church to seduce one of the young pastors. This girl had previously been involved with several other ministers, causing their downfall in the ministry. Before we realised, one of the inexperienced pastors had fallen into the hands of this lady. The pastoral team responded quickly. I watched as the pastoral team met with the young girl and removed her permanently from the church. I watched as they kept a sharp lookout in case she ever returned. You see, Jezebels who destroy and seduce people must not be allowed to continue practicing their deeds. There is something you can do about it.

Jezebel was also a prophetess. In other words, she was in the ministry. The Jezebel of the Old Testament was the wife of Ahab. The spirit of Jezebel often occupies both female ministers (Jezebel the prophetess) and wives of powerful ministers (like the wife of King Ahab).

Many times, ministers do not want to confront a fellow minister’s wife. They want to remain pleasing to all parties. They do not want to offend anyone. They do not want to take sides. They want to remain in the good books of the Jezebel wife.

John Wesley’s wife may qualify as a well-known difficult wife. One of her problems was that she felt the Methodist ministers did not like her. The Methodist ministers did not like the way she treated their founder and leader and I am sure it was pointed out to her. It is good that the Methodist ministers showed their disapproval of her. Most of the time, difficult women are left to misbehave and torment their husbands. People simply do not like to deal with the Jezebels who operate against God’s servants. Jezebels like to stay in the background and fight God’s servants from the secret place.

People want to keep their self-respect and not touch the controversial Jezebel. The Thyatira church did not want to deal with their Jezebel just as many modern churches do not want to deal with their Jezebels.

I met a man of God who confessed to me that he had made the greatest mistake of his ministry and career.

He said to me, “It has cost me everything. It has cost me my life, my job, my church and my career.” He said, “I have just lost twenty-five years of my life’s work.”

I asked him, “Why? What did you do wrong?” He said to me, “My senior pastor was married to a Jezebel wife. She attacked all of us and divided the church. Today, the whole church is scattered and it is because of that woman. Today, we have lost our positions because of that Jezebel wife. We have lost our jobs and it is because of that Jezebel woman. We are nothing because we acquiesced to the spirit of Jezebel.”

He said to me, “The greatest mistake of our lives was that we did not confront that woman. We should have confronted her long before. We should have stepped in to our senior pastor’s marriage and stopped the Jezebel in her tracks. We should have been her enemy! We should have fought against Jezebel openly, no matter what it cost. We failed to do that and now it has cost us everything.”

Today, that church is closed down and does not exist any more. They were good pastors and had charity, works, service, faith and patience. If they had done a little bit more and fought against the Jezebel of their lives and ministry, they would still have had a church today.

Hey Mr Righteous, can’t you do just a little bit more? Can’t you take up a good fight for the Lord? Can’t you lose a bit of your good reputation for Jesus? Do you always have to be the nice perfect guy who does no wrong? Come on and fight for Jesus and do not worry about whose friendship you lose. Do a little bit more by dealing with the Jezebels of your church!





CHAPTER 16




Philadelphia; Can’t You Do Just a Little Bit More?




And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no man openeth; I KNOW THY WORKS: behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name. Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee. Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth. Behold, I come quickly: HOLD THAT FAST WHICH THOU HAST, THAT NO MAN TAKE THY CROWN.

Revelation 3:7-11

The Philadelphian church was full of good works. Philadelphia speaks of brotherly love. In spite of their little strength, they did great things for God. They kept His Word and did not deny His name. They had a great promise from God that He would keep them from the hour of temptation.

Indeed, even the Philadelphia church was asked to do a little bit more. What was the little they were asked to do?

Hold fast and hold on! Indeed, if you do not do a little bit more of holding on to your position, someone else could take your position and your crown. Sometimes, people achieve great things but do not do the little extra of holding on to their positions. Why is that? When God uses you, you must value what He has done and you must cherish the valuable things you have.

I met a missionary who was used by God to do great things. After building the church of God and sacrificing his life for the ministry, he turned towards preaching about finances and business. He became more of a businessman and a financial mogul. Today, many pastors are like that. As soon as they have a big and successful church, they forget about church planting and soul winning and turn towards a financial ministry. It is important to hold on to what is valuable and what made you who you are. Hold fast!

How does a pastor become important in this life? Does he become important because of his money, his background, his education or his businesses? He becomes important because of the church and because of God. He became important because he planted a church and won many souls. Yet, most pastors do not hold fast to the importance of church planting and soul winning. Few pastors continue to preach about church planting and soul winning! It is as though church planting is a forgotten and unimportant subject. In addition to having done great things for God, it is important to do a little bit more by holding fast to the doctrines and foundations that have made us what we are.

Can‘t you do just a little bit more? Can you hold on tight?





