Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.



Church Administration



Copyright © 2016 Dag Heward-Mills



First published 2004 by Parchment House

Find out more about Dag Heward Mills at:

Healing Jesus Campaign

Email: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

Website: www.daghewardmills.org

Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

Twitter: @EvangelistDag

EBOOK ISBN : 978-1-64329-509-1



All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Contents

Chapter 1: How to Establish a Membership Base

Chapter 2: What to Expect from the Average Church Member

Chapter 3: How to Manage Your Offerings

Chapter 4: How to Improve Your Offerings

Chapter 5: How to Improve Tithing in the Church

Chapter 6: How to Improve Tithing in the Church

Chapter 7: How to Manage the Church’s Money

Chapter 8: Separate the Pastor’s Money from the Church’s Money

Chapter 9: How to Develop the Church Constitution

Chapter 10: Principles of Employment

Chapter 11: Guidelines of Employment

Chapter 12: How to Employ Someone

Chapter 13: How to Determine Salaries

Chapter 14: How to Manage a Network of Churches

Chapter 15: The Ready-to-Use Sample Constitution

Chapter 16: The Temperament Examination

References





Chapter 1




How to Establish a Membership Base




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

1. 	Register all your members using a simple membership registration form.

Having a complicated form with all sorts of details often creates useless data which is never used. The church is not the CIA and often does not require such extensive information.

2. 	The most important fields of information for church membership are the names, ages, gender, telephone numbers and addresses.

Some will argue that further information such as previous marriages, number of children, educational background, etc. are relevant for pastoral care. I agree with you but my experience is that most of this information is never properly used or managed. It becomes piles of useless data which no one knows what do with.

3. 	Give every member a life-time index number which will be used as a permanent reference point.

This number will be needed by every computer system and program used. The index number will be used to monitor the individual’s tithes. It can also be used by the individual in any activity that requires identification. For instance, if you have classes or examinations in the church, this number will come in handy.

4. 	Do not be deceived! Many church members do not consider their membership as that important.

When they are moving on, as in location or country, many do not bother to inform their pastor that they are leaving. They see themselves as insignificant members whose absence will not be noticed.

5. 	The unannounced departure of numerous members without notice converts your laboriously acquired information into useless data.

This is why unnecessary and lengthy efforts to gather information about each member is discouraged.

6. 	Accept that church membership has a fluid and ever changing composition.

There are always some stable and unmovable people in each congregation but it is best for every pastor to accept the absolute fluidity of church membership. Church membership can be described as a flowing river in which the water you see today will not be the water you see tomorrow.

7. 	 Make joining your church easy.

The filling of a simple form is an easy one step procedure for joining the church. Some churches insist on people going through various classes and procedures before they are allowed to become members. This is a good idea but the danger is that many will not go through these classes and will assume that they are not members. I believe that as they join the church through a simple procedure, they will then have the opportunity to go through the classes.

8. 	Accept the reality of different levels of membership.

Within every congregation, there are at least four levels of memberships:

i.	People who have just filled a simple form. With such people, it is not easy to tell whether they are even born again or whether they tithe.

ii.	People who have filled membership forms and are also tithers. Tithing indicates a level of commitment and Christian maturity.

iii.	People who have filled membership forms, who are tithers and who participate in small groups and other non-Sunday church service activities. Such people are even more committed.

iv. Leader Membership is the next level of church membership.

There are people who in addition to all three above become leaders and workers in the church. This fourth level is a crucial level because it is here that the moral and ethical standards of the church can be enforced. You cannot prevent homosexuals from filling forms. Neither can you prevent prostitutes from paying tithes or participating in church activities. You can only preach to them and pray that the Lord shows mercy. However, you can actually prevent a known or practicing immoral person from occupying a position of leadership. This is the only way that the integrity of the church can be safeguarded - at the level of the leader’s membership.

9. 	Link membership to something that appeals to ordinary Christians.

The modern mindset is ‘do nothing unless it benefits you!’ People want to feel that joining a church has some benefit before they commit themselves. Linking the membership to benefits in the church such as scholarships, job placements and other opportunities provide motivation for people to sign up. If the people see no benefit, they will simply attend listlessly without registering their presence.

10. 	Registering church members can provide important data which is useful in providing programmes and pastoral care to registered members.

11. Use computers, databases, and any other gadget to manage the fluid membership of the modern church.

12.	Do not over-extend yourself in the field of computerization and administration.

There are many diversions and time wasting traps which can cause a pastor to leave his true calling.

13.	Do not inflate figures of membership.

The greatest person in heaven will not be the pastor with the most members; it will be the pastor who was most humble whilst on this earth.





Chapter 2




What to Expect from the Average Church Member




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

A successful administrator is someone who understands the mindset of the average church member. Without a clear understanding of how church members think and operate, most pastors will not succeed in administering the church. The following points attempt to describe in a general way (of course, there are many exceptions) the mindset of the average church member. Financial planning by an administrator must take into account these realities. A successful pastor must predict certain trends and circumvent them.

The quicker you understand and predict these trends and circumvent them, the more successful you will be in ministry.

Most pastors have an erroneous impression that their members really love God and that their minds are constantly on the church and its projects. However, it must be understood that this is not the case.

Most church members’ minds are not on the church but on themselves.

They spend a lot of money on themselves, but very little on God.

Most church members feel that a hundred dollars is little money in a shopping mall but is too much to give at offering time in church.

Most church members do not pay tithes and they will not pay no matter what you say!

If you preach about tithes, some people will pay up for a while but most people will stop when they forget the message. Your financial planning as an administrator must take this into account.

Most church members will pledge various amounts during fund raising events. However most of them will not pay what they promised. A wise pastor must expect only a small percentage of the pledged amount.

Most church members are irregular in their church attendance.



These members therefore only contribute irregularly to the ministry. This accounts for the unpredictable and low incomes of churches. Any wise planner must take into account this unpredictable behaviour.

Most church members are ignorant of the sacrifices their pastor makes.



Many church members think their pastor’s only duty is to rest all week and deliver one Sunday sermon. This makes the average church member unwilling to make many financial sacrifices for the ministry.

Most people are inherently ungrateful.



They benefit from the church but refuse to express their gratitude through contributions and gifts. The ingratitude of church members is demonstrated by the amounts people are willing to give to the ministry.

Many church members have commitments to other groups such as political parties, old boys associations, tribal associations and professional bodies.



These affiliations are often stronger than their commitments to the church. Many church members will readily sacrifice you and your church programmes for other private engagements.





Chapter 3




How to Manage Your Offerings




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

Prevent the loss of your offerings by the following measures:

1. 	Prevent stealing of the offerings by monitoring who becomes an usher.

2.	Keep the ushers in view at all times so that none of them are able to dip their fingers into the offering bowls.

3.	Ensure security so that an intruder cannot steal the offerings.

4.	Prevent the loss of offerings by ensuring that two or three people count it at the same time.

5.	Make sure that no one is ever left alone with the money. Whilst they are alone, they can steal the money.

6.	You must have a form that indicates how much money was counted for the day. This form must be signed by at least two people.

Whatever is on this form must correspond with the bank pay-in slips.

7.	Keep the money in a secure safe to ensure that the offering is not stolen after it has been counted.

8.	Offerings should not be kept in the pastor's house, as he will be accused of misusing the church's money.

9. 	Bank the money at the very next opportunity. In between the time you collect the money and the time you do the banking, money can be misappropriated.

10.	Ensure that 100% of your offerings are banked and banked promptly.

11.	 Do not take out money from the offering before it is taken to the bank.

This will confuse the accounts and open the door to all kinds of malpractices. If you need petty cash, sign a cheque of a fixed amount and enter this as your petty cash imprest. As you use this imprest, record what the imprest is used for.





Chapter 4




How to Improve Your Offerings




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

1.	Dedicate enough time during the service for receiving offerings.

2.	From time to time, teach the church on giving.

Regular and weekly teaching on giving tends to lose its impact. But irregular, spontaneous and Spirit led teachings on giving tend to boost offerings remarkably.

3.	Show the congregation evidence of judicious use of money.

Church members lose interest in giving when they feel they are just financing the lifestyle of their superman pastor. I constantly mention the different projects, which we are engaged in so that my people are motivated.

4.	Flow prophetically and under the anointing when receiving offerings.

The people respond more to the power of God, than to human efforts to raise funds.

5.	Take at least two offerings in each service.

Initially you would think that people would divide their offering into two. But experience has shown that taking two offerings approximately doubles the income realized from offerings. Also, there are many people who come to church late and they must also be given the opportunity to give an offering.





Chapter 5




How to Improve Tithing in the Church




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

1.	Teach about tithing.

2.	Link tithing with church membership.

In other words let the people understand that you consider the fact that they tithe as the indication of their genuine membership.

3.	Establish real differences between all other offerings and the tithe.

There must always be some indication that the tithe is different from every other offering. For instance, the tithe could be paid through envelopes and cards whereas other offerings would not be.

4.	Although opportunities for receiving the tithe should be made at each service, the first Sunday of a month should be set aside as a special Sunday for the receiving of tithes.

5.	In line with the concept of distinguishing the tithe, church members can be made to come to the altar to present their tithe, whilst the offering basket could be passed round for all other offerings.

6.	Create an index number system for the church.

Encourage the members to write this number on the tithing card or envelope. Use a computer to monitor the tithe received with each corresponding index number. Many people would prefer to have a number on the envelope rather than their names. Not everyone would like people to know how much their tithe is.

7.	Separate the record of the names and numbers of 	church members so that this information is kept private.

This ensures some confidentiality for members who may not want just anybody to know how much contribution they make to the ministry.

8.	Make the tithing records available so that church members can request a statement of their contributions.

9.	When the need arises, use these records as a basis to determine who is a member and who is not.

You can use these records also to determine whom the church can assist. The scripture teaches that we should do good generally but especially to those who are of the household of faith. The household of faith refers to those people who are bona fide members of your spiritual household or church.

As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the HOUSEHOLD OF FAITH.

Galatians 6:10





Chapter 6




How to Improve Tithing in the Church




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

1.	Understand that fund raising is intended to be a boost to the general tithes and offerings collected.

2.	If you do not establish the basic income from tithes and offerings, fund raising will never achieve its intended effect.

3.	Special fund raising events must not be too frequent in one congregation.

Members quickly get tired of their pastor’s fund raising gimmicks and will no longer respond to appeals.

4.	The fund-raiser must decide on the highest amount to be requested.

When the amount is too high, he will get few responses. If no one responds to your initial high request, the entire fund raising event could fall into jeopardy. I have seen this happen many times.

5.	It is sometimes better to choose an average amount that many more people can respond to.

For instance in many congregations, there are more people who can give a hundred dollars and much fewer that can give a thousand dollars. Simple arithmetic shows us that sixty people giving one hundred dollars yields more than two people giving a thousand dollars each.

6.	During fund-raising, give opportunities to all levels of givers to contribute, from the richest to the poorest.

The poor people may collectively give more than the rich. You may therefore miss your target if you concentrate only on the rich.

7.	Pledges are promises of money that Christians make during fund raising events.

Generally speaking, the shorter the time given for individuals to honour their pledges, the higher the returns will be. A few days after making pledges, many Christians forget the promises they made in church. I recommend that the period of time to pay up a pledge should be from one week to three months.

8.	No matter how much people pledge, a wise pastor should not expect more than 30% of pledges to come in.

Unfortunately, most Christians are not spiritual and do not keep their word. Many pledge large amounts and do not pay up. If you want to plan successfully you must never budget on what the congregation has pledged.

9.	Pastors who budget on promised amounts are usually accused of misusing funds because the full amounts are never realized.

It is wise to save money towards a project before embarking on fund raising. This ensures that your project comes on whether the people pay up their pledges or not.

10.	Never see fund raising as a means of financing your projects.

The build up of your regular tithes and offerings should be the main source of project financing. In other words, see fund raising as what it really is: a boost to your existing financial situation. God has determined how the church is to be financed: regular tithes and offerings.





Chapter 7




How to Manage the Church’s Money




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

Managing money involves a lot of wisdom. It is important to use secular principles to manage the money of your church.

Over spiritualizing financial issues is the number one cause for financial confusion that plagues many churches.

Church employees must pay taxes. The church itself does not pay tax.



However, individuals who work for the church must pay tax. If a church engages in any kind of business or profit making activity, it must pay taxes on the income made from that.

In other words churches do not pay taxes on the tithe, offerings and gifts received. However, tax should be paid from income generated from farms, shops and other businesses. Do not spiritualize the paying of tax.

4.	Avoid debt.

Although this instruction sounds simple, it is probably the most profound piece of advice I could give to any ministry. Debts have closed down many churches. Debts have deceived many pastors into a false sense of prosperity. Debts have deceived pastors into over extending themselves. Many borrow until they cross the threshold where they have borrowed too much.

5.	In relation to debt, there are two schools of thought.

Some believe that it is necessary to borrow in order to prosper. But I believe that you can prosper without borrowing money.

6.	Employ wisely and carefully.



The more people you employ, the more salaries you have to pay. As the saying goes, ‘the fewer the merrier.’ It is possible to do many things with a few employees. It is possible to accomplish much with fewer but quality people.

7.	There is nothing prestigious about having many employees in your ministry.

God did not call you to create jobs; he called you to win souls.

8.	Start a building project as early as possible.

As soon as your church begins a building project, your finances will improve and you will be surprised at what you are able to accomplish. Do not wait to see huge sums of money before you begin a building project. The building project you embark upon will be the greatest evidence of the financial integrity of your ministry.

9.	Do not start a grandiose project which is far bigger than the size of your ministry.

You may never finish and your church members may be discouraged by the unending nature of your building project.

10.	There are many huge building projects which are impressive to men but which God did not initiate.

Unfortunately many of these grandiose projects are empty or half filled shortly after completion. Some churches are only filled on the day of their dedication.

11.	Grandiose building projects inflict great stresses on the senior pastor.

These stressed out pastors tend to preach mostly about finances because there is a great and pressing need for money.

12.	Meet the needs of the church before you meet the needs of the pastor.

For instance, build a church building before building a mansion for the senior pastor. This generates much confidence and inspires the church to give.

13.	Although church members will encourage the pastor to buy the nicest car for himself, do not be deceived.

Many members have mixed feelings about their pastor’s prosperity! On one hand, they are happy that he is doing well but on the other hand; they wonder whether money is being used wisely.

14.	Since you cannot explain the source of all your blessings as a pastor, it is wise not to openly display every possession you have.





Chapter 8




Separate the Pastor’s Money from the Church’s Money




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

1.	It is important to differentiate between the property and the money of the church and the property and money of the pastor.

Clear lines of demarcation must be established.

2.	There must be an understanding that the tithes and offerings of the church do not belong to the pastor even if he is the unquestionable founder and leader of the church.

Because of this, a pastor cannot and must not randomly access the church funds for personal needs.

3.	The pastor must not receive the churches tithes and offerings into his personal account.

Offerings must not be kept in the pastor’s home. It is wise for the pastor not to count money himself, but to delegate it to a team of honest Christians.

4.	A pastor should desist from taking money directly from the offering.

The counters of the money will consider you to be an unprincipled thief.

5.	Do not borrow money from the church with the intention of paying back later.

6.	Do not use your money for church projects with the intention of being paid back later.

7.	The senior pastor must also have a clearly defined income with clearly defined conditions, benefits and privileges.

All benefits and privileges should be implemented on the basis of a policy that cares for the pastor. When a pastor indiscriminately dips his hands into the churches bank account or offerings to meet his personal needs, he is laying a foundation for confusion and corruption.





Chapter 9




How to Develop the Church Constitution




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

1.	One of the most frequent requests I have had is the request for my church constitution.

Many people do not understand what a constitution is. That is why they request it, thinking that it is a key to administration or church growth.

2.	The church constitution is the legal document that defines the church to the government.

Generally speaking, it explains to the government who you are and what you do.

3.	The church constitution therefore has little to do with the day to day running of the church.

The church constitution therefore does not contain the keys to church growth or church administration.

4.	The constitution is therefore to be differentiated from a manual that defines and guides the structure and ministry of a church.

This guide to practical ministry has nothing to do with lawyers and is the business of pastors who lead the church. Lawyers come in to help draft a simple constitution which has a very limited application in a real church.

5.	Do not allow lawyers to mislead you into theoretical and verbose paperwork that has little practical value for your church.

Most lawyers know very little about how a church really runs.

6.	Having a constitution is therefore a formality that you must fulfill in order to exist legally.

7.	Most people do not do what is written in their constitution therefore it is often a meaningless document which has no real and practical input to the church life.

8.	The church constitution is a document that becomes necessary in three main instances

i.	To open bank accounts as the banks need to know who you are in a legal sense.

ii.	In a legal crisis within the church where the essential leadership of the church is threatened or in question. Other legal crises to do with the ownership of property sometimes necessitate the reference to a constitution.

iii.	In a legal crisis where the foundational objectives and standards of the church are threatened.

9.	Such legal crises that necessitate the consulting of constitutions are so serious that it is important to have the constitution of your church laid out carefully.

10.	A long constitution can be dangerous because it will contain numerous clauses, the significance of which the average pastor may not appreciate.

Make sure you understand every single sentence in your constitution.

11.	A short constitution is to be preferred because it will have fewer dangerous clauses with ambiguous interpretations.

12.	Know the law under which your church is registered.

Know and understand what your church is registered as. Sometimes, churches are forced to register as companies or associations. You must understand the implications of this.

13.	A simple constitution must include the following:

i.	The name of the church

ii.	A preamble

iii	A statement of faith

iv.	The aims and objectives

v.	The Church Boards

vi.	The Administration

vii	Finance

viii	Succession

ix.	The Amendment clause

14.	Constitutions tend to change.

As a church grows, it is redefined and the constitution has to be redefined. For instance, our church began as a single congregation but has developed into over four hundred congregations in thirty countries. Obviously, the constitution of a single congregation will be different from the constitution of a network of churches. As your church evolves, the constitution must be amended and expanded as necessary.

15.	Since a constitution is called upon mostly in a crisis your constitution must have the following essential features about the leadership:

i.	Who the leader of the church is.

ii.	How the leader of the church comes to be in office.

iii.	The circumstances that can or cannot remove the leader from office.

iv.	Clear and unambiguous guidelines for succession. It must be clear as to who will take over in the event that the current leader is no more in place.

16.	In a time of crisis, many people do not obey the constitution because they claim that the church is not to be governed by a piece of paper but by the Holy Spirit.

Therefore it is important to verbally communicate the essentials of the constitution so that the information carried therein will not come as a surprise.

17.	Other essential material within the constitution will contain information on the aims and objectives of the organization.

The eternal values and founding vision must be spelt out clearly and in such a way that they cannot be tampered with by future deviant ministers.

18.	Other information which is required in the constitution includes information on finances and the structure of the church.

19.	Don’t forget, short and vague constitutions are safer for new ministries.

20.	I have included the sample of a simple constitution, which will work for almost any church.

The Ready-to-Use Sample Constitution

Constitution of the Allos Church International

Preamble

We, The Allos Church International (which is the name of a Christian association, hereinafter referred to as ‘the church’) with the main object of propagating the Word of God….

In compliance with the Biblical mandatory injunction to go into all the world and make disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ,

Convinced that such disciples must be properly tutored and brought up in the Word of God,

Recognizing that a Constitution to regulate the operations of the Church is not only a legal requirement for registration of the Church but also one of the many ways to build a stable church structure, do hereby enact this Constitution for the purposes of our work:

ARTICLE 1: THE NAME

1.	The name of the church shall be THE ALLOS CHURCH INTERNATIONAL

2.	The Allos Church International shall set up churches everywhere thereby constituting a worldwide network of churches in different places. It shall have its corporate office in Golden Streets, North West Heaven.

3.	The registered address of the corporate office of THE ALLOS CHURCH INTERNATIONAL shall be The Allos Church International, P. O. Box 24, Golden Streets, North West Heaven.

ARTICLE 2: AIMS AND OBJECTIVES

1.	The Allos Church International shall provide a ministry of the Word of God through the planting of churches, the organisation of Para-church ministries and institutions in order to reach any person irrespective of race, colour, and nationality.

2.	The Allos Church International shall propagate the Gospel of Jesus Christ to all parts of the world through any means such as church services, crusades, breakfast meetings, prayer meetings, radio and television outreaches, witnessing campaigns or any other means that are appropriate, so long as they are not contrary to the laws of the land.

3.	The Allos Church International shall have as its primary function to be the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

4.	 Other secondary roles of the church such as providing health, education, poverty alleviation, and relief services, shall be practiced and encouraged as long as they shall not adversely affect or contradict the primary role of preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ.

ARTICLE 3: MEMBERSHIP AND STATEMENT OF FAITH

1.	The Allos Church International requires that all members must be born-again Christians, who publicly and openly profess to have conscious and willingly accepted Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour.

2.	The Allos Church International believes that the Bible is the Word of God.

3.	The Allos Church International requires that all members accept the bible, as the word of God and the final authority for all aspects of Christian living.

4.	The Allos Church International shall emphasise the study of the word of God, the preaching and teaching of the word of God, Soul Winning and Evangelism.

The church will also emphasize prayer, the reality of the Holy Spirit, the work of ministry and the basic doctrines of Christ.

ARTICLE 4:	 ADMINISTRATION

1.	The Founder and President of the Allos Church International is Peter John-Paul

2.	The Founder and President shall appoint two Vice-Presidents who shall assist him in the performance of his functions and in the administration of the Allos Church International Denomination.

3.	They jointly shall also appoint appropriately qualified personnel to various positions and offices that exist, and that shall be created in due course.

ARTICLE 5: CHURCH BOARDS

1.	A governing board shall be established. This board shall consist of the President, Senior Pastors, church secretary, finance director, administrator and legal advisor. This board shall assist the president in the administration of the church.

2.	A pastoral board shall be established. This board shall consist of the President and the other appointed pastors of the church. This board shall assist the president in the running of the pastoral and ecclesiastical affairs of the church.

ARTCLE 6: FINANCES

1.	The Allos Church International and its activities shall be financed from funds derived from free-will tithes and offerings as well as voluntary contributions from other individuals and organisations.

2.	Funds received by the church are non-refundable and are not subject to claims by any individual or organisation which may have made any contribution whatsoever.

3.	Funds of Allos Church International are to be deposited in the designated depository banks, and may be withdrawn or otherwise dealt with by authorised joint signatories.

4.	The financial affairs of the Allos Church International shall be handled by appropriately qualified personnel appointed thereto.

ARTICLE 7: 	SUCCESSION

1.	During his lifetime, the founder shall nominate a successor to lead the organisation for an indefinite period after his expiration. In the event of the failure or refusal of the founder to nominate a successor, the pastoral board shall duly elect the next president who shall lead the church for a five year renewable term.

2.	In the event of the departure, death or resignation of a non-founding president, the first vice president shall act in the capacity of the president. At the next meeting, the pastoral board shall elect a successor to the president. The new president shall lead the church for a term of five years which is renewable once.

ARTICLE 8: AMENDMENTS

1.	The Founder and President shall have the power to amend any part of this Constitution in his lifetime.

2. Upon the demise of the Founder and President, the Constitution shall be amended by a 75% majority decision of the pastoral board.

Signatures





SIGNED:





-------------------

Peter John-Paul

PRESIDENT





--------------------

Thomas Andrew

1ST VICE PRESIDENT





--------------------

Matthew Judas

2ND VICE PRESIDENT





Chapter 10




Principles of Employment




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

1.	Employ people that are genuinely needed by the organization.

2.	Employ from within the church.

As much as possible, employ people who are church members. Sometimes it is not possible to do so. But it is better to take from amongst your own sheep.

3.	Fire! Dismiss!

Anyone who employs people must be ready and willing to dismiss these people in the future if the need arises. Contrary to traditional opinion, it is important to fire non-performing staff members even though they may be members of your church.

4.	Employ as few people as you possibly can.

When people are employed for non-existent jobs, they become disgruntled and dissatisfied. Such people complain and create a discontented atmosphere in the church office. It is better not to have an employee than to have an unhappy employee.

5.	Make employees carry out multiple roles.

For instance a pastor could be a lecturer at the bible school and at the same time fulfill his pastoral duties. You may not need to have a secretary in this modern age as many people can type a simple letter on the computer. You may not need to have a receptionist as you could have a door bell to announce the arrival of a visitor. You may not need to have a telephonist as the modern telephone systems can be answered and transferred by anyone.

6.	Use of machines; Wherever possible, use equipment instead of human beings.

Machines do not get tired! Machines do not develop moods and attitudes! Machines do not ask to be paid for over-time work. Machines do not go on leave. Machines do not go on maternity leave. Machines do not resign suddenly!

7.	Establishing your headship

The pastor should develop an average knowledge base in every field with which he has to work. Many pastors have a 'black out mentality' in which they think they are not qualified to relate with that area of expertise. For instance, as soon some ministers realize that something has to do with legal work they black out and call for lawyers saying, "This is legal work, just call the lawyers to take over". In this way, pastors often unsuspectingly sell their fate to misguided professionals who do not know enough about the church.

I have learnt that whether it is accounting, medicine, law, architecture or engineering, there is a level to which I can relate with the subject. I therefore need to read and ask many questions. It takes humility to ask questions about things you do not know.

Through the asking of many questions, I have become very knowledgeable in many areas of professional expertise. In my ministry, I am deeply involved with all the professional bankers, travel agents, lawyers, accountants, human resource managers, carpenters, contractors, engineers, architects and administrators that I have employed. As time has gone by, they have developed a healthy respect for my ability to engage in intelligent discussions on the relevant subjects.





Chapter 11




Guidelines of Employment




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

1. Put everything in writing.

Once you begin to employ people, it is important to write letters and contracts where necessary. Discussions are no longer sufficient basis for dealing with employees even though they may be church members.

2.	Education: What refines and disciplines every worker!

Education serves as the basis of employment. Although the success of ministry is not dependent on education, it is an important factor. Education greatly refines the natural gifts that God has given to every individual. Any kind of education is often valuable even in the ministry. Your education does not have to be in a particular field in order to be valuable in that field. For instance, I am trained as a doctor but I function as a pastor, a manager, a doctor and a leader. I was not trained for much of what I do today but my general education in the fields of anatomy, physiology, pharmacology, microbiology etc. have greatly enhanced my ability to perform. Generally speaking, the more formally educated a person is, the more valuable he is. That is why salaries jump as individuals acquire more degrees. However this is not a hard and fast rule. Some people are able to informally educate themselves thus making up for a lack of formal education. Another important effect of education is the establishing of discipline in the individual.

The discipline that develops as he passes numerous exams is one of the most valuable assets that education imparts. Generally speaking, an educated person is more disciplined than an uneducated person. The disciplines of education (having to stay up late, having to pass exams, having to surmount various barriers and hurdles) are all exercises that prepare the individual for the rigors of real life.

3.	Temperaments: what defines the abilities of every worker!

Know all about temperaments. The knowledge of an individual’s temperament is a very good guide for determining how suitable he is for a job. Unfortunately someone may be educated in an area but does not have the temperament suitable for that kind of work. If you do not understand the strengths and weakness of the choleric, the melancholic, the phlegmatic and the sanguine you will be a frustrated employer. You will constantly wonder why the work is not done even though you have some one who is a specialist in that field.

a.	When to employ a choleric:

The choleric is good at jobs that involve targets and deadlines. He is also good at pioneering new projects and doing things that have not been done before. He is also good at supervising other employees due to his natural tendency to take charge.

The choleric is likely to be your best kind of manager. Because he is self-motivated and self-supervising, he is able to drive himself through the obstacles of a big project. A choleric will spontaneously work for many extra hours. A choleric can handle a number of different functions at the same time. The choleric is not usually good at being an assistant since he takes the lead naturally.

b.	When to employ a melancholic:

Choose a melancholic when the job involves being meticulous and detailed. A melancholic employee will also do well in positions where books and records must be kept. They are also target oriented and very focused. A melancholic may also be good for jobs that require secrecy. The melancholic is said to be very intelligent and very loyal. Use them for sensitive jobs which require loyalty. Because they are very analytical and detailed they are good at jobs that involve technical things. They are usually the best at using computers, machines and other technical equipment. The melancholic is usually gifted in the area of music. He may be useful in that area.

c.	When to employ a phlegmatic:

Choose the phlegmatic when the job involves monotony. Repetitive and laborious work within already defined structures is the best place for the phlegmatic worker. Teaching in a school setting and doing routine work in an established office are good examples of jobs for the phlegmatic.

They are usually not good at meeting deadlines and building new projects. The Phlegmatic is easy going and may be the best person to handle difficult people-situations. He may not always express the urgency required in sensitive situations and sees no need to hurry about anything. Therefore keep your phlegmatic away from stressful and high intensity work zones.

d.	When to employ a sanguine:

The sanguine must be employed when the job requires intelligence, giftedness, and the creation of happiness and pleasant conditions. The sanguine is good at jobs that have to do with human relationships. They usually give a good public presentation of your office and what you stand for. They are often good singers because they are uninhibited and therefore give full expression to the music they perform. They introduce life and vitality to almost every circumstance. The sanguine is usually gifted and must be used in his gifted areas and not in the area of organization. The giftedness of a sanguine employee must not be confused with the ability to manage and organize things. Somehow the sanguine is not very good at meticulous management and organization.

The sanguine will do well when the job can be completed in a short time frame. Although your sanguine employee may look outwardly charismatic he often does not have the discipline to carry things through.

4.	Supervise every employee.

There are four main ways to supervise:

a.	 Supervision by meetings

Meetings provide a forum for discussion of the work. During these meetings, different aspects are discussed and the employees are made to focus on the important targets.

b.	 Supervision by visits

There are two types of visits: announced visits and unannounced visits. Announced visits help the individuals to put up their best performance. Surprise visits help the manager to see the real picture.

c.	 Supervision by monitoring targets

This is the best form of supervision. Ultimately, the worker is supposed to produce results. A result oriented work place is often more fruitful than others.

d. Supervision by the “Scapegoat” principle.

In this method, workers who are found to be non-performing can be dismissed as an example to the others. In all my experience, there is nothing that sends a more somber message than the dismissal of an employee. A tone of seriousness is introduced into the system.

5.	Be a benevolent employer

Be kind and generous to your staff. It is important for people to perceive that you genuinely care for them. Even if you do not have a good salary to offer, the employee’s knowledge of your concern and love for them is reassuring. You will be surprised to find out that people will work for ‘more love and less money’ than for ‘more money and less love.’





Chapter 12




How to Employ Someone




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

Step 1: The Application letter

An application letter is to be written by the potential employee. This is important so that the individual will not say that he was forced to work in the ministry against his will. The application is the evidence of the individual’s desire to work with you.

Step 2: Presentation of documents by the applicant

There should be a presentation of CV’s and certificates from school. This is important because there are many who claim to have certain backgrounds but in actual fact have no real qualification. For example, some people attended university but either did not complete their courses or did not pass their exams and therefore have no authentic certificates.

Step 3: The temperament examination

A simple test can reveal the basic temperament of your potential employee Study the test included and implement it for every worker. Ensure that you put your employee in an area that is suitable for his temperament.

Step 4: The general interview

Every applicant must be interviewed by a panel. Somehow a panel is better able to objectively question an applicant. The interview helps create a solid foundation for the future. The panel becomes convinced about the rightness or wrongness of employing this individual. The job seeker defends his application and makes a case for himself to be employed. The interview helps the applicant to perceive the church as a professional, efficient and competent organization. This interview establishes whether the individual is the right person for the job in question.

Step 5: The financial interview

This interview centers on the financial package that the newly employed person can expect to receive. Sometimes it is wise to separate financial discussions from discussions centered on the job itself. In a church setting it is important that people work because they believe God has called them, rather than for the money. After this interview, if the individual is still happy to work for the organization then you may go ahead and give the Letter of Appointment.

Step 6: The letter of appointment

A letter of acceptance of the individual must be given to the applicant upon his passing the interview. This letter should specify the date of commencement of work. Such a letter would remove doubts concerning his date of employment. The date of employment becomes important when determining benefits that are time related. This letter should be delivered at an extensive and explanatory meeting.

Step 7: The remuneration package letter

A letter that indicates the remuneration package that has been discussed at the financial interview. This includes things like the take home salary, and any other housing, transport or health benefits that may exist. This includes what the person will be paid and what the person can expect in the future. It is wise to retain this letter in house. In other words, the individual signs the letter acknowledging that he has seen and understood the contents of the letter.

Step 8: The job description letter

Give a letter containing the job title and the job description. This should explain in detail the job that the person is expected to do. Explain in your letter how the individual will be assessed and what targets should be accomplished. This letter should be delivered at an extensive and explanatory meeting.

Step 9: The orientation letter

This letter should introduce other existing departments and indicate the functions of other staff members. There will be many questions on the mind of a new person. For instance:

Where should I go if I need money to complete a project?

Who do I call on when I need equipment?

Where do I go when I need equipment to be fixed?

Where do I go when I personally need financial assistance?

Who do I see when my computer breaks down?

Who do I see when I need a car?

Who do I see if I need to arrange for transport?

What do I do if I want to resign?

Who is my boss?

Who does my boss report to?

Step 10: The general expectations letter

This is a letter that indicates the other general expectations of an employee as well as any staff rules that may exist. In some offices, there may be dress codes and rules about privacy and confidentiality. There may be rules about the use of equipment and the repair of equipment. There may also be rules about visitors to the office and the access to the offices. There may be working hours that are peculiar to the office. All these and more need to be spelt out clearly.

Step 11: The sanctions letter

This is a letter that indicates a sanctions package. It should include measures that will be taken against an employee in the event of unsatisfactory performance or behaviour. Such sanctions must always include the possibility of dismissal. You must also include the reality of the need to lay off staff in the event that the church can no longer sustain its staff.





Chapter 13




How to Determine Salaries




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

Salaries must be determined by the employer. It is good to use a board or committee to determine salaries. The board must have a formula that guides them in determining salaries. It is important to establish clear grades and ranks among employees. These ranks must be understood and accepted by all. The basis for rank is the same basis for determining salaries. Ranks amongst the employees become the basis for different grades of benefits available. Salaries in any country are determined be the following principles:

1.	The real cost of living.

There is no point in paying someone less than he can survive on. You will only create an army of petty thieves within the church. The cost of living varies from country to country. It even varies within a country. It is important to consider these realities. In some places people earn a lot of money but have equally high bills.

2.	The salary which the individual was paid in his previous work place.

This serves as a good measure to what the person lived on in the past. People often inflate the figures of their former work place. Knowing the previous salary helps to quieten individuals who claim you are not paying them well. All you have to do is to refer them to their previous jobs.

3.	Comparable salaries

Salaries can be determined by knowing what is being paid to individuals who are doing similar jobs in comparable organizations. A secretary who demands an unreasonable salary must be told what other secretaries earn in comparable organizations. A pastor who demands outrageous benefits must be told about what other pastors earn in other churches.

4.	The educational background of the individual

Generally speaking, the more educated a person is, the more he earns. There are times however that the qualifications of an individual must be ignored. There are some people who are good at passing exams in school and therefore have many degrees. Unfortunately many of such people are of little practical use when it comes to real work. It must be remembered that a certificate is just a piece of paper and does not mean that an individual is capable of carrying out a job.

5. 	The value of the individual to the organization

This is the most important factor in determining someone’s income. Consider what would happen if a particular employ were absent. Easily replaceable people, such as drivers and secretaries are not as valuable as managers and lifelong assistants!

6. 	The length of time the individual has worked after school

Usually, the longer an individual has been in gainful employment, the more mature and productive he is. Young people are full of zeal and energy but sometimes lack the maturity that seasoned workers have.

7. The length of time the individual has worked for the organization

The length of time that individuals have worked for you must be recognized. Generally speaking, the longer people work, the more they must be paid.

8. 	The ability of the organization to pay the individual

It is all well and good to propose very high salaries. Will the church be able to continue paying these salaries? Many organizations are unable to pay their employees at the end of the month. This unfortunate situation is sometimes created by over-staffing and over-paying people. The leader must assess carefully whether he will be able to sustain certain levels of payment.

Sometimes, individuals want to be paid as though they work in a bank. I often tell my employees that we are neither a bank nor a gold mine. A secretary working for a gold mine may obviously have a higher salary than a secretary working for a church. A church simply does not have the income that a gold mine has and therefore cannot sustain the salaries that a gold mine pays.





Chapter 14




How to Manage a Network of Churches




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

Type 1 Church Network

1.	In this type of church network, each church is autonomous or independent.

2.	Each church within the network remits a percentage of its income to a general fund.

3.	In this type of network, pastors start their own ministries with some initial support.

4.	Sometimes, this support lasts for six months and then the churches must continue at their own expense.

5.	Even though churches within this type of network are quite independent, they often maintain the same name and belong to a common fellowship.

6.	Here, Pastors are trained by the mother organization. After the initial training, these pastors become independent. They maintain a membership of the network by paying a percentage of their income. They also maintain their membership of the network for the sake of fellowship and a sense of belonging.

7.	Pastors cannot be transferred from their congregation because they are independent.

8.	An example of this kind of network is the Assemblies of God church.

Type 2 Church Network

1.	In type two church networks, branch churches are not independent and are continually monitored and governed by the headquarters.

2.	The mother church finances the start of the church and supports it fully. All income flows into a central fund and ministers are paid from a central fund

3.	All the needs of these churches are met by the network as a whole. There is more dependence on the central system than on individual strengths.

4.	The scriptural truth that churches which gather in more income support churches that gather less is implemented fully.

“As it is written, He that had gathered much had nothing over; and he that had gathered little had no lack. (2 Corinthians 8:15).

5.	Pastors are trained by the mother organization. In this network, pastors continue to be trained and supported after their initial training.

6.	The central governing body can transfer pastors.

7.	An example of this system is the Church of Pentecost.

Manage the Network

Managing a network of churches is different from pastoring a single church. Pastoring a network of churches requires the development of a complex system of management. This system of management will help you to:

1.	Know what is going on in the different churches.

This is done by developing a system in which reports are sent regularly to the headquarters. Weekly or monthly reports must contain vital information about the churches that you have established.

i.	the real attendance

ii.	what is preached and who preaches

iii.	the income of the church for the week

2.	Communicate regularly to maintain a spirit of loyalty and togetherness in the family of churches.

Reports must be sent to the headquarters by the most convenient method e.g. email, letter, fax, courier or by hand. Gradually, a well controlled and full monitored system becomes established. The information must be used for decision taking. For instance this information will determine if the church in question is doing well. It also determines if there is a need to make any changes.

3.	Influence what is going on in the different churches.

Influence what is going on by having frequent meetings with all the pastors and leaders. Meetings with the leaders are more important than meetings with the church itself.

4.	Encourage. Churches that are part of the network need a lot of encouragement.

Pastors and churches greatly benefit from frequent visits by seasoned ministers.

5.	Teach to maintain a spirit of loyalty and togetherness in the network.

It is important to teach on the advantages of belonging to the network.

Teach on How to do the Work of Ministry

The first key to managing a network of churches is the training of ministers. The congregation is a field in which you plant seeds. If you plant seeds of leadership and inspire the members to do pastoral work, they will do it. The more you teach on how to do the work of the ministry, the more potential ministers will be released. When you teach your leaders, you are actually teaching many people. Pastors must know the principle of explosive growth: if you want growth, teach your members, if you want explosive growth teach your leaders!

Teaching leaders establishes authority over the leaders who work under you. This is because the authority over the leaders is demonstrated by your ability to feed them.

Every pastor must teach leaders because Jesus Christ taught leaders all the time. Pastors must spend more time teaching leaders than teaching ordinary church members. This is the pattern set by Christ Jesus. Teaching leaders is your greatest key to true expansion. You will not have anyone to delegate to if you have not trained leaders.

Every pastor must teach his leaders because the leaders will never know what to do unless you teach them. Many pastors assume that the potential leaders around them will acquire vital knowledge by osmosis. People feel that leadership is for special people who are born that way. Osmosis is to the key to leadership – teaching is!

I have written many books on these subjects which I recommend to you: “Lay People and the Ministry1”, “The Mega Church”, “Transform Your Pastoral Ministry” etc. As you teach your members these materials, you will be surprised at what they will become.

Teaching on Loyalty

The second key to planting a network of churches is LOYALTY. Loyalty is essential for maintaining a network of churches. The churches you will plant will not be in the same location. It is therefore necessary for people to be loyal wherever they are situated. I have taught a lot on loyalty. I have also written two books on this subject “Loyalty and Disloyalty” and “Leaders and Loyalty”. I recommend that you read these books, as they will be a blessing to your ministry.

I once heard of someone criticizing me for teaching on loyalty.

He said, “Why should you teach on loyalty and disloyalty?”

He went on to say that loyalty is not something that is taught but is something that people are inspired to do because of your leadership.

I was not surprised that this dear critic of mine had not planted a single branch of his church but was criticizing someone who had planted over four hundred churches.

On another occasion, a dear pastor criticized me for teaching on loyalty. However when his church split, he became an avid reader of my books and even promoted them to other ministers. Loyalty is a key subject which must be taught until the culture of faithfulness and loyalty is established!

Teaching on Church Administration

Church administration involves the managing of the churches that have been created. It involves managing a combination of secular and spiritual issues. It involves balancing natural things with supernatural things.

Church administration involves the blending of hierarchical leadership and a democratic form of government. Both of these styles are biblical. The Bible has examples of committees being formed as in Acts chapter 6. As in the case of Paul and Timothy, the Bible also has examples of an autocratic style of leadership with direct instructions being handed down.

Church administration requires combining the power of God and the wisdom of God. See my book entitled Church Administration.

Without good church administration everything that you build will eventually collapse. You need to master church administration otherwise your ministry will be likened to a rocket that shoots out and falls apart shortly after take off.

But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God

1 Corinthians 1:24

The Advantages of a Network of Churches

1.	History has proved that the networks of churches or branches are very successful. These networks of churches are sometimes called denominations.

2.	There are several well-known networks of churches in the world today. These networks are often the most stable and established congregations everywhere. The Assemblies of God Church, the Church of Pentecost, Church of God in Christ are but a few notable examples of these networks. The largest church in the world, pastored by David Yonggi Cho, belongs to the Assemblies of God Church network.

3.	History has shown that belonging to a network of churches can give rise to very large stable congregations. It may be the key to church growth for your congregation.

4.	Belonging to a network of churches sometimes eliminates the instability that characterizes young independent churches. The institutional stagnation that sometimes develops in a network of churches may be much less of an evil compared to the advantages that come with it.

5.	In a network of churches, there are tried and tested principles which are passed on to sister churches.

6.	In a network of churches, the already existing name serves as publicity and attracts people to the churches. This name becomes like a franchise and serves as a powerful asset. The good name of a network of churches also has spiritual significance that cannot be quantified.

7.	In a network of churches, trained members benefit from an established and respected system of pastoral recommendation and appointments.

8.	The network of churches can benefit from each other financially. You are not likely to get financial support outside your network. Through a system of brotherly interdependence, churches are able to accomplish much more.

9.	Church members readily flow between churches belonging to the same network. The network of churches is therefore to keep members within the fold.

10.	Churches within the network easily benefit from anointed senior ministers of that network. They do not have to go through the protocol or experience the cost of having such ministers.

11.	Pastors within the network of churches can receive fatherly counsel and encouragement from seniors. Pastors of independent churches are usually suspicious and wary of external ministers who parade as fathers. There is little trust because independent churches often compete with one another rather than support each other.

12.	Churches within a network operate under a particular spiritual covering. The same anointing runs through the entire network because it is really one church.





Chapter 15




The Ready-to-Use Sample Constitution




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

Constitution of the Allos Church International

Preamble

We, The Allos Church International (which is the name of a Christian association, hereinafter referred to as ‘the church’) with the main object of propagating the Word of God….

In compliance with the Biblical mandatory injunction to go into all the world and make disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ,

Convinced that such disciples must be properly tutored and brought up in the Word of God,

Recognizing that a Constitution to regulate the operations of the Church is not only a legal requirement for registration of the Church but also one of the many ways to build a stable church structure, do hereby enact this Constitution for the purposes of our work:

ARTICLE 1: THE NAME

1.	The name of the church shall be THE ALLOS CHURCH INTERNATIONAL

2.	The Allos Church International shall set up churches everywhere thereby constituting a worldwide network of churches in different places. It shall have its corporate office in Golden Streets, North West Heaven.

3. The registered address of the corporate office of THE ALLOS CHURCH INTERNATIONAL shall be The Allos Church International, P. O. Box 24, Golden Streets, North West Heaven.

ARTICLE 2: AIMS AND OBJECTIVES

1.	The Allos Church International shall provide a ministry of the Word of God through the planting of churches, the organisation of Para-church ministries and institutions in order to reach any person irrespective of race, colour, and nationality.

2.	The Allos Church International shall propagate the Gospel of Jesus Christ to all parts of the world through any means such as church services, crusades, breakfast meetings, prayer meetings, radio and television outreaches, witnessing campaigns or any other means that are appropriate, so long as they are not contrary to the laws of the land.

3.	The Allos Church International shall have as its primary function to be the preaching of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.

4.	 Other secondary roles of the church such as providing health, education, poverty alleviation, and relief services, shall be practiced and encouraged as long as they shall not adversely affect or contradict the primary role of preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ.

ARTICLE 3: MEMBERSHIP AND STATEMENT OF FAITH

1.	The Allos Church International requires that all members must be born-again Christians, who publicly and openly profess to have conscious and willingly accepted Jesus Christ as Lord and Saviour.

2.	The Allos Church International believes that the Bible is the Word of God.

3.	The Allos Church International requires that all members accept the bible, as the word of God and the final authority for all aspects of Christian living.

4.	The Allos Church International shall emphasise the study of the word of God, the preaching and teaching of the word of God, Soul Winning and Evangelism.

The church will also emphasize prayer, the reality of the Holy Spirit, the work of ministry and the basic doctrines of Christ.

ARTICLE 4: ADMINISTRATION

1.	The Founder and President of the Allos Church International is Peter John-Paul

2.	The Founder and President shall appoint two Vice-Presidents who shall assist him in the performance of his functions and in the administration of the Allos Church International Denomination.

3.	They jointly shall also appoint appropriately qualified personnel to various positions and offices that exist, and that shall be created in due course.

ARTICLE 5: CHURCH BOARDS

1.	A governing board shall be established. This board shall consist of the President, Senior Pastors, church secretary, finance director, administrator and legal advisor. This board shall assist the president in the administration of the church.

2.	A pastoral board shall be established. This board shall consist of the President and the other appointed pastors of the church. This board shall assist the president in the running of the pastoral and ecclesiastical affairs of the church.

ARTCLE 6: FINANCES

1.	The Allos Church International and its activities shall be financed from funds derived from free-will tithes and offerings as well as voluntary contributions from other individuals and organisations.

2.	Funds received by the church are non-refundable and are not subject to claims by any individual or organisation which may have made any contribution whatsoever.

3.	Funds of Allos Church International are to be deposited in the designated depository banks, and may be withdrawn or otherwise dealt with by authorised joint signatories.

4.	The financial affairs of the Allos Church International shall be handled by appropriately qualified personnel appointed thereto.

ARTICLE 7: SUCCESSION

1.	During his lifetime, the founder shall nominate a successor to lead the organisation for an indefinite period after his expiration. In the event of the failure or refusal of the founder to nominate a successor, the pastoral board shall duly elect the next president who shall lead the church for a five year renewable term.

2.	In the event of the departure, death or resignation of a non-founding president, the first vice president shall act in the capacity of the president. At the next meeting, the pastoral board shall elect a successor to the president. The new president shall lead the church for a term of five years which is renewable once.

ARTICLE 8: AMENDMENTS

1.	The Founder and President shall have the power to amend any part of this Constitution in his lifetime.

2. Upon the demise of the Founder and President, the Constitution shall be amended by a 75% majority decision of the pastoral board.





Signatures

SIGNED:





-------------------

Peter John-Paul

PRESIDENT





--------------------

Thomas Andrew

1ST VICE PRESIDENT





--------------------

Matthew Judas

2ND VICE PRESIDENT





Chapter 16




The Temperament Examination




For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting...

Titus 1:5

The Temperament Examination



The following temperament test can be implemented by every employer. This will help you to know what kind of person you are employing. Just follow the instructions below and you will come out with a score for each of the four temperaments. When you discover which temperament the individual is, you can refer to what we discussed earlier on temperaments. This will help you to decide what job is best for the individual.





STRENGTHS

1

Adventurous. Takes on new and daring enterprises with a determination to master them.

Adaptable. Easily fits and is comfortable in any situation

Animated. Full of life; lively use of hand, arm, and facial gestures.

Analytical. Likes to examine the parts for their logical and proper relationships

2

Persistent. Sees one project through to its completion before starting another.

Playful. Full of fun and good humour

Persuasive. Convinces through logic and fact rather than charm or power

Peaceful. Seems undisturbed and tranquil and retreats from any form of strife

3

Submissive. Easily accepts any other’s point of view or desire with little need to assert his own opinion.

Self-sacrificing. Willingly gives up her own personal needs for the sake of, or to meet needs of, others.

Sociable. Sees being with others as an opportunity to be cute and entertaining rather than as a challenge or business opportunity.

Strong-willed. Determined to have his own way.

4

Considerate. Has regard for the needs and feelings of others.

Controlled. Has emotional feelings but rarely displays them.

Competitive. Turns every situation, happening or game into a contest and always plays to win!

Convincing. Can win you over to anything through the sheer charm of her personality.

5

Refreshing. Renews and stimulates or makes others feel good.

Respectful. Treats others with deference, honour and esteem

Reserved. Self-restrained in expression of emotion or enthusiasm

Resourceful. Able to act quickly and effectively in virtually all situations.

6

Satisfied. Easily accepts any circumstance or situation

Sensitive. Intensively cares about others and about what happens

Self-reliant. Can fully rely on his own capabilities, judgement, and resources

Spirited. Full of life and excitement.

7

Planner. Prefers to work out a detailed arrangement beforehand for the accomplishment of a project or goal and prefers involvement with the planning stages and the finished product.

Patient. Unmoved by delay, remains calm and tolerant

Positive. Knows a situation will turn out right if she is in charge.

Promoter. Urges or compels others to go along, join, or invest through the charms of his personality.

8

Sure. Confident, rarely hesitates or wavers.

Spontaneous. Prefers all of life to be impulsive, unpremeditated activity not restricted by plans.

Scheduled. Makes, and lives according to a daily plan, dislikes her plan to be interrupted.

Shy. Quiet, doesn’t easily initiate a conversation.

9

Orderly. Has a methodical, systematic arrangement of things.

Obliging. Accommodating, quick to do a task another’s way.

Outspoken. Speaks frankly and without reserve.

Optimistic. Sunny disposition, convinces self and others that everything will turn out all right.

10

Friendly. Responds rather than initiates, seldom starts a conversation

Faithful. Consistently reliable steadfast, loyal and devoted sometimes beyond reason.

Funny. Sparkling sense of humour that can make virtually any story into a hilarious event.

Forceful. A commanding personality against whom others would hesitate to take a stand.

11

Daring. Willing to take risk, fearless, bold.

Delightful. Upbeat and fun to be with.

Diplomatic. Deals with people tactfully, sensitively, and patiently.

Detailed. Does everything in proper order with a clear memory of all the things that happen.

12

Cheerful. Consistent in good spirit and promoting happiness in others.

Consistent. Stays emotionally on an even keel, responding as one might expect.

Cultured. Interests involve both intellectual and artistic pursuits, such as theatre, symphony, ballet.

Confident. Self-assured and certain of own ability and success.

13

Idealistic. Visualizes things intheir perfect form and has a need to measure up to that standard.

Independent. Self-sufficient, self-supporting, self-confident and seems to have little need of help.

Inoffensive. Never says or causes anything unpleasant or objectionable.

Inspiring. Encourages others to work, join or be involved, and makes the whole thing fun.

14

Demonstrative. Openly expresses emotion, especially affection, and doesn’t hesitate to touch others while speaking to them.

Decisive. Quick, conclusive, judgement-making ability.

Dry-humour. Exhibits “dry wit” usually one-liners that can be sarcastic I mature.

Deep. Intense and often introspective with a distaste for surface conversation and pursuits.

15

Mediator. Consistently finds himself in the role of reconciling difference to avoid conflict.

Musical. Participates in or has a deep appreciation for music, is committed to music as an art form rather than for the fun of performance

Mover. Driven by a need to be productive, is a leader whom others follow, finds it difficult to sit still.

Mixes easily. Loves a party and cant wait to meet everyone in the room, never meets a stranger.

16

Thoughtful. Considerate, remembers special occasions and is quick to make a kind gesture.

Tenacious. Holds on firmly, stubbornly and wont let go until the goal is accomplished

Talker. Constantly talking, generally telling funny stories and entertaining everyone around, feeling the need to fill the silence to make everyone feel comfortable.

Tolerant. Easily accepts the thoughts and ways of others without the need to disagree with or change them.

17

Listener. Always seems willing to hear what you have to say.

Loyal. Faithful to a person, ideal, or job, sometimes beyond reason.

Leader. A natural born director who is driven to be in charge and often finds it difficult to believe that anyone else can do the job just as well.

Lively. Full of life, vigorous, and energetic.

18

Contended. Easily satisfied with what she has rarely envious

Chief. Commands leadership and expects people to follow.

Chart maker. Organizes life, tasks and problem solving by making lists, forms, or graphs.

Cute. Precious adorable, centre of attention

19

Perfectionist. Places high standards on self, and often on others, desiring that everything be in proper order at all time.

Pleasant. Easy-going, easy to be around, easy to talk with.

Productive. Must constantly be working or achieving, often finds it very difficult to rest.

Popular. Life of the party and therefore much desired as a party guest.

20

Bouncy. A bubbly, lively personality, full of energy.

Bold. Fearless, daring, forward, unafraid of risk.

Behaved. Consistently desires to conduct himself within the realm of what he feels is proper.

Balanced. Stable, middle-of-the-road personality, not subject to sharp highs or lows.





WEAKNESSES

21

Blank. Shows little facial expression or emotion

Bashful. Shrinks from getting attention, resulting from self-consciousness.

Brassy. Showy, flashy, comes on strong too loud.

Bossy. Commanding, domineering, sometimes overbearing in adult relationships.

22

Undisciplined. Lack of order permeates almost every area of her life.

Unsympathetic. Finds it difficult to related to the problems or hurts of others.

Unenthusiastic. Tends to not get excited, often feeling it won’t work anyway.

Unforgiving. Has difficulty forgiving or forgetting a hurt or injustice done to him, apt to hold on to a grudge.

23

Reticent. Unwilling or struggles against getting involved, especially in complex situations.

Resentful. Often holds ill feelings as a result of real or imagined offences.

Resistant. Strives, works against, or hesitates to accept any way other than her own.

Repetitious. Retells stories and incidents to entertain you without realizing he has told the story several times before, is constantly needing something to say.

24

Fussy. Insistent over petty matters or details, calls for great attention to trivial matters.

Fearful. Often experiences feelings of deep concern, apprehension, or anxiety.

Forgetful. Lack of memory, which is usually tied to a lack of discipline and not bothering to mentally records things that aren’t fun.

Frank. Straightforward, outspoken, doesn’t mind telling you exactly what she things.

25

Impatient. Finds it difficult to endure irritation or wait for others.

Insecure. Apprehensive or lacks confidence.

Indecisive. Finds it difficult to make any decision at all (not the personality that labours long over each decision to make the perfect one).

Interrupts. More of a talker than a listener, starts speaking without even realizing someone is already speaking

26

Unpopular. Intensity and demand for perfection can push others away.

Uninvolved. Has no desire to listen or become interested in clubs, groups, activities or other people’s lives.

Unpredictable. May be ecstatic one moment and down the next, or willing to help or disappears or promises to come or forgets to show up.

Unaffectionate. Finds it difficult to verbally or physically demonstrate tenderness.

27

Headstrong. Insists on having his own way

Haphazard. Have no consistent way of doing things

Hard to please. Standards are set so high that it is difficult to every satisfy her.

Hesitant. Slow to get moving and hard to get involved.

28

Plain. A middle-of-the-road personality without highs or lows and showing little, if any, emotion.

Pessimistic. While hoping for the best, generally sees the down side of a situation first.

Proud. Has great self-esteem and sees self as always right and the best person for the job.

Permissive. Allows others (including children) to do as they please to keep from being disliked.

29

Angered easily. Has a childlike flash-in-the-pan temper that expresses itself in tantrum style and forgotten almost instantly.

Aimless. Not a goal-setter, with little desire to be one.

Argumentative. Incites arguments generally because he is right no matter what the situation may be.

Alienated. Easily feels estranged from others, often because of insecurity or fear that others do not enjoy her company.

30

Naïve. Simple and childlike perspective, lacking sophistication or comprehension of what the deeper levels of life are really about.

Negative attitude. Attitude is seldom positive and is often able to see only the down or dark side of each situation.

Nervy. Full of confidence, fortitude and sheer guts, often in a negative sense.

Nonchalant. Easy-going, unconcerned, indifferent.

31

Worrier. Consistently feels uncertain, troubled or anxious.

Withdrawn. Pulls back and needs a great deal of alone or isolation time.

Workaholic. An aggressive goal-setter who must be constantly productive and feels very guilty when resting, is not driven by a need for perfection or completion but by a need for accomplishment and reward.

Wants credit. Thrives on the credit or approval of others; as an entertainer this person feeds on the applause, laughter and / or acceptance of an audience.

32

Too sensitive. Overly introspective and easily offended when misunderstood.

Tactless. Sometimes expresses himself in a somewhat offensive and inconsiderate way.

Timid. Shrinks from difficult situations.

Talkative. An entertaining, compulsive talker who finds it difficult to listen.

33

Doubtful. Characterized by uncertainty and lack of confidence that a problem or situation will ever work out.

Disorganized. Lacks ability to get life in order.

Domineering. Compulsively takes control of situations and / or people, usually telling others what to do.

Depressed. Feels down much of the time

34

Inconsistent. Erratic, contradictory, with actions and emotions not based on logic.

Introvert. Thoughts and interests are directed inward, lives within himself.

Intolerant. Appears unable to withstand or accept another’s attitudes, point of view, or way of doing things.

Indifferent. Most things don’t matter one way or the other.

35

Messy. Lives in a state of disorder, unable to find things.

Moody. Doesn’t get very high emotionally, but easily slips into low lows, often when feeling unappreciated.

Mumbles. Will talk quietly under the breath when pushed, doesn’t bother to speak clearly.

Manipulative. Influences or manages shrewdly or deviously for his own advantage, will get his way somehow.





References




Chapter 16



Littauer, F., and Sweet, Rose “Personality Plus at Work: How to Work Successfully with Anyone” Revell 2011





