Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.

			Enlargement Secrets

			Copyright © 2022 Dag Heward-Mills

			First published 2022 by Parchment House

			77Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills at:

			Healing Jesus Campaign

			Email: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

			Website: www.daghewardmills.org

			Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

			Twitter: @EvangelistDag

			ISBN : 978-1-68398-714-7

			All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Table of Contents

CHAPTER 1 : Recognize a Season of Enlargement

CHAPTER 2 : Enlargement through “This Book”

CHAPTER 3 : Enlargement through Meditation

CHAPTER 4 : Enlargement Guided by Recent History

CHAPTER 5 : Enlarge by a Series of Battles

CHAPTER 6 : Enlargement Is Born of the Spirit

CHAPTER 7 : Enlarge through Victory over King Adonizedek

CHAPTER 8 : Enlarge through Victory over King Hoham

CHAPTER 9 : Enlarge through Victory over King Piram

CHAPTER 10 : Enlarge through Victory over King Japhia

CHAPTER 11 : Enlarge through Victory over King Debir

CHAPTER 12 : Enlarge by Involving Everyone in the Work

CHAPTER 13 : Enlarge by Having a Proper Respect for Curses

CHAPTER 14 : Enlarge with Equal Amounts of Spirituality and Wisdom

CHAPTER 15 : Enlarge by Eliminating Covetousness

CHAPTER 16 : Enlarge Without Being Presumptuous

CHAPTER 17 : Enlarge to the Uttermost

CHAPTER 18 : Enlarge by Data, Truths and Facts

CHAPTER 19 : Enlarge by Retreating

CHAPTER 20 : Enlarge by Divine Turnarounds

CHAPTER 21 : Enlarge Your Sacrifices

CHAPTER 22 : Enlarge Suddenly

CHAPTER 23 : Enlarge With All Night Work

CHAPTER 24 : Enlarge by Leaving Nothing Undone

CHAPTER 25 : Enlarge With Faithful Friends

CHAPTER 26 : Enlargement Is by The Guidance of the Spirit

CHAPTER 27 : Enlarge Even though Your Friends Are Targeted

CHAPTER 28 : Enlarge by the Supernatural

CHAPTER 29 : Enlarge by Overcoming Distraction

CHAPTER 30 : Enlargement by Judgment

CHAPTER 31 : Enlarge by Becoming an Authority Figure

CHAPTER 32 : Enlarge Without Stealing

CHAPTER 33 : Enlarge by Teaching and Demonstrating

CHAPTER 34 : Enlarge by the Fathers’ Instructions

CHAPTER 35 : Enlarge Against Hard Hearts

CHAPTER 36 : Enlarge by Wiping out Giants

CHAPTER 37 : Enlarge by Accepting God’s Inheritance

CHAPTER 38 : Enlarge into the War Mode

CHAPTER 39 : Enlargement Through Pain

CHAPTER 40 : Enlarge In Your Private Life

CHAPTER 41 : Enlarge Your Interaction with Angels

CHAPTER 42 : Enlarge by Switching from the Supernatural to the Natural

CHAPTER 43 : Enlargement Will Last a Long Time

CHAPTER 44 : Enlargement in the Midst of Your Years





CHAPTER 1




Recognize a Season of Enlargement




		 			Now after the death of Moses the servant of the Lord it came to pass, that the Lord spake unto Joshua the son of Nun, Moses’ minister, saying, Moses my servant is dead; now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou, and all this people, unto the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you, as I said unto Moses.

			Joshua 1:1-3



		 			This is the season of your enlargement! This book is a prophecy for your enlargement into God’s purpose and plan for your life!

			Joshua carried the people of God into the season of their expansion, extension and enlargement. Joshua entered The Promised Land and into an enlarged place! God had promised them a land flowing with milk and honey! The Promised Land is what you will see in the season of enlargement!

			The wisdom of God will manifest in your life and carry you through your season of enlargement. All through the coming season, you will be guided by these secrets of enlargement. You will emerge as one of the few people who enlarged into God’s purpose of growth and expansion for their lives.

			It is important to recognize the season of enlargement when it comes. Many things can initiate a season of enlargement including the death or the absence of someone. The death, the absence, the resignation, the departure and the separation from certain individuals will spark the season of enlargement for you. The same thing that sparks a season of enlargement could spark a season of decline.

			Do not be too sad about someone’s resignation. Do not be too sad about someone’s death. Death is also God’s mercy to this earth. Can you imagine if all the notoriously evil people in this world were still alive? People like Adolf Hitler, Stalin and Emperor Nero would have finished their prison sentences by now and been set free. They would be embarking on their next campaign to manifest wickedness for the next three hundred years. The earth has been spared their presence and their evil machinations. Death also signals the handing over of a baton to the next person in the relay. Death and absence signals that a new generation has come of age. It is your turn to manage or mismanage your own affairs.

			Do not be too sad about your separation from certain individuals. Do not be too sad about the absence of certain people. Do not be too sad about dismissals! Do not be too sad about the loss of certain people from the fellowship. Do not be too sad about the end of certain friendships. The end of these things means something! Their absence means something! God rules in the affairs of men.

			The absence of certain people often means the end of certain evils that were taking place in your life. The absence of certain people often means the end of a chapter in your life. Understand the spiritual meaning of casualties, death, separation, departures, parting, splitting, exoduses, disappearances, exits, removals and absence. Some of these events are simply the beginning of a new season.

			I declare a new season over your life. You will expand! You will enlarge! You will go forward and not backward. Isaac experienced enlargement when he flowed with the will of God.

			Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him. And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great:

			Genesis 26: 12-13





CHAPTER 2




Enlargement through “This Book”




		 			“THIS BOOK” of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then THOU SHALT HAVE GOOD SUCCESS.

			Joshua 1:8





		 			This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! God was directing Joshua to a book! This book! God was pointing His finger to a book. God is still pointing His finger at a book for you. What God did for Joshua, He is doing for you! He is pointing to a book, guiding and leading you gently to discover a book that is necessary for your ministry.

			There is a book God has chosen that will bring you into enlargement. What book is that? There is a set of books out there that God has chosen for you.

			Many years ago, someone gave me a book by Kenneth Hagin. It was a little book entitled “Plead Your Case”. That book was essential to my enlargement. It introduced me to Kenneth Hagin, a prophet. It introduced me to his preaching. It introduced me to his teachings. It introduced me to his other books. It introduced me to the ministry of this prophet and his teachings.

			Today, you are in the shoes of Joshua, the son of Nun. A great expanse of land lies before you. Eight billion people who do not know Jesus are waiting to hear the gospel. They are hoping that you will break through and come to them with the gospel of Jesus Christ.

			One man cannot do much! One man can only reach a few people. One man can only do so much with his short life. You will need to enlarge your ministry to reach many more people than you have. You cannot be content with the little you have achieved. You must not accept the stagnating church and the small ministry that you have. There is more for you to accomplish!

			You can achieve great expansion and enlargement in God and in the ministry. You can enlarge through a book. You can enlarge your ministry through the book that God chooses for you. Martin Luther received enlargement of his ministry through a book. He had never read the Bible. He had never read the books of Ephesians, Galatians and Romans. He did not know about the grace of God. Martin Luther was asked to give some lectures at the Bible school. To give his lectures, he had to study the books of Ephesians, Galatians and Romans. As he read these books in preparation for his lectures, he was stunned to find out that salvation was by grace and not by works. All that he had known was that salvation would come through paying his penance and going through certain rituals. The more of these rituals he was able to go through, the closer he would come to his salvation.

			When Martin Luther found out about the grace of God through the books, and how salvation comes to man, he was transformed radically. He became the famous reformer that we all know today. Martin Luther was completely enlarged into a worldwide ministry that is world famous up till today.

			This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! Remember, there is a book that is earmarked to enlighten you and enrich you for ministry. God is calling you! You need to be greatly enlarged for the work of ministry.

			Above all, the most important book for your life is the Bible. Every book you read must be helping you to read the Bible and understand it better. I always pray that my books will guide people to the Book of books, which is the Bible. I pray that this book will give you a greater understanding of the Bible. This is why Joshua was warned, cautioned and instructed to remember “This Book”. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth!

			I release you as an enlarged servant of God! Through the power of revelation in this book, you will be released as a blessing into your world. You will emerge with victory by the time you are through with this book.

			Someone asked me, “What can I do about my stagnating church? I have been in the same spot for so long. The church is simply not growing.” My answer to him was simple. The answer is in a book! The answer is always in a book. God answered Joshua before he could even ask the question. This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book! This book!

			If you are not prepared to search through books, you are not prepared to find the secrets that bring enlargement. When I longed for my church to grow, I began searching for books written on church growth. I read many different kinds of books by many authors. Eventually, I latched onto the secrets of church growth in books written by David Yonggi Cho.

			All the enlargement secrets you need are in a book. Maybe this particular book will bring you to a secret that will lead to your enlargement and expansion.





CHAPTER 3




Enlargement through Meditation




		 			This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt MEDITATE therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then THOU SHALT HAVE GOOD SUCCESS.

			Joshua 1:8

		 			Enlargement will come through meditation. Most people do not think about the word of God enough! By thinking about the word of God you will begin to have revelation. Revelation is a spirit. The Bible speaks of the spirit of revelation. You need the spirit of revelation if you are to achieve anything for God. A teacher needs a spirit of revelation! A pastor needs a spirit of revelation! A prophet needs a spirit of revelation! Revelation will come through meditation.

			Joshua’s mission was to enlarge into The Promised Land. He was to occupy more land, more territories and more space. He was to enlarge until he displaced the enemies of God. He needed a master key to become successful. God gave him the master key of meditation. Meditate upon the word of God!

			What is Meditation?

			1.	Meditation is the art of becoming successful. Joshua was told to meditate on the Word and become a success. Meditation was the master key given to Joshua so that he could be successful. Has it ever occurred to you that successful people are deep thinkers? You do need to think a little deeply if you want to experience salvation. You do need to reflect a little more deeply on the word of God if you want to be successful. When I meditated on the scripture, “Give thyself wholly to these things” I received revelation and jumped out of practicing medicine into full-time ministry.

			Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all.

			1 Timothy 4:15

			2.	Meditation is the art of extracting wisdom! Meditation is the art of becoming successful by extracting the fearful instructions out of God’s word. It is the art of becoming successful by developing a fear of God. Meditation is the art of becoming successful by extracting the details of things you have been told to do.

			Meditation is the art of extracting justice, equity, counsel and understanding out of the word of God. You may receive a proverb but you will not get the wisdom out of it. You may hear a dark saying but you will not get the counsel or the instructions out of it. Meditation on the Law is the master key to extracting wonderful revelations for yourself.

			3.	Meditation is the art of thinking deeply. Few precious metals are found on the surface of the earth. It is those who dig deep who find these precious minerals. When you meditate on the Word, it shows you are trying to go deeper to get the real valuables out of the Word. The lack of meditation is the reason why people do not understand or believe in the wisdom of the word of God. The lack of meditation is the reason why people hear dark sayings and proverbs but do not get anything out of them. A lack of meditation is the reason why the prophecies in the word of God are disregarded. God’s word is real and it is going to come to pass.

			4.	Meditation is the art of repetition. Meditation speaks of repeating something over and over. When you listen to a message over and over you are meditating on the message. You are attempting to get the treasure out of the message. When you repeat words to yourself, you are attempting to extract the knowledge and the wisdom out of the word you are repeating. The lack of meditation is the lack of repeating something to yourself.

			The lack of meditation is the reason why people read the Word and are still not wise. The lack of meditation is the reason why people listen to instructions and still do not follow them. If you repeat something over and over, you will remember to do it. People listen to messages and do not understand the dark sayings and proverbs in them. They listen to messages and do not notice the prophecies in them. They listen to preaching and miss the instructions God has for them. People miss out because they listen to messages only once. Listening to things once, will make you miss the key of meditation.

			Seven Reasons for Meditation

			1.	You must meditate to have wisdom. You will not have wisdom if you do not meditate. The proverbs you know will not lead you to know wisdom and instruction. Rather, meditation will lead to the infiltration of wisdom into your soul.

			The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; to know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding;

			Proverbs 1:1-2

			2.	You must meditate to know justice, judgment and equity. Proverbs are the statements that will release wisdom, justice, judgment and equity into your life. However, you will not really know justice and judgment until you learn to meditate. You may know the proverbs, but the wisdom, justice and equity in them will not come to you until you meditate.

			The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; … To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity;

			Proverbs 1:1, 3

			3.	You must meditate to have subtilty, knowledge and discretion. Without meditation you will never really know much. Repetition makes knowledge sink into your mind. Start repeating things to yourself and thinking about God’s word so that you become knowledgeable through meditation.

			The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; ... To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion.

			Proverbs 1:1, 4

			4.	You must meditate to increase learning. You start learning when you start meditating. Increase your rate of learning new things by increasing your rate of meditation.

			A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels:

			Proverbs 1:5

			5.	You must meditate to attain wise counsel.

			A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels:

			Proverbs 1:5

			6.	You must meditate to understand proverbs and dark sayings.

			To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.

			Proverbs 1:6

			7.	You must meditate to develop the fear of the Lord which is the beginning of wisdom.

			The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction.

			Proverbs 1:7





CHAPTER 4




Enlargement Guided by Recent History




		 			And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us we will do, and whithersoever thou sendest us, we will go. According as we hearkened unto Moses in all things, so will we hearken unto thee: only the Lord thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses. WHOSOEVER HE BE THAT DOTH REBEL AGAINST THY COMMANDMENT, AND WILL NOT HEARKEN UNTO THY WORDS IN ALL THAT THOU COMMANDEST HIM, HE SHALL BE PUT TO DEATH: only be strong and of a good courage.

			Joshua 1:16-18

		 			What has happened to the older generation is very important to the younger generation. It is important to know what happened to the older brothers and older uncles. What happened to them could easily happen to you. The new generation must learn from the mistakes of their fathers.

			Enlargement will come to you if you will remember the mistakes of your fathers and mothers, uncles and aunties and avoid them. You will have an enlarged marriage if you learn from the mistakes of the marriage of your parents. You will have an enlarged ministry if you learn from what happened in your parents’ ministry.

			Whenever something happens right before your eyes, you must consider it as a vision. Consider it as a direct warning from God for your life. God is speaking to you through an event that is taking place in someone else’s ministry.

			For I tell you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.

			Luke 10:24

			I want you to notice the scripture above. Jesus Christ was pointing out to His disciples that many prophets and kings would have liked to see and hear the things they had seen and heard. When something happens right before your eyes, it is a privilege God is giving you. Indeed, the physical things that are happening and that you are seeing and noting, are prophetic directions from God. Prophets and kings would like to see some of the things God has allowed you to see.

			Joshua’s generation learnt from the murmuring, grumbling, complaining and disloyalty of the older generation. They realised how murmuring, grumbling, complaining and being disloyal had resulted in older ones missing The Promised Land completely.

			Joshua and his team had no intentions on losing out on the enlargement that was coming up. They intended to steer as far from the rebellious ways of their fathers as possible.

			In a remarkable statement they declared at the onset of their ministry that anyone who brings the slightest sniff of disloyalty and rebellion against authority would be eliminated with lightning speed and strength.

			Enlargement will come to you if you will remember the mistakes of your fathers and mothers, uncles and aunties and avoid them. As you enlarge into your calling, you must remember all that has happened in the past. What has happened in the past happened as an example for you. History is not just a collection of stories. History is a set of lessons you must learn from!

			The older generation of the children of Israel had rebelled against God. They refused to obey Him time and time again. They complained, they murmured and they grumbled incessantly and God counted the number of times they grumbled against Him. After they had grumbled against Him ten times, God told them that He had counted the number of times that they had grumbled against Him. Ten is the number of completeness. When you have ten, you do not need any more. That is why the Ten Commandments are all the commandments we need. Ten summarizes all that you will ever need. Murmuring and grumbling ten times was more than enough for God. That is what made God destroy them. God destroyed a whole generation because of their grumbling, murmuring and discontented attitude.

			Because all those men which have seen my glory, and my miracles, which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, AND HAVE TEMPTED ME NOW THESE TEN TIMES, and have not hearkened to my voice; Surely they shall not see the land which I sware unto their fathers, neither shall any of them that provoked me see it:

			Numbers 14:22-23

			When someone tells you about something that has happened, do not think you are just being told some gossip and some rumours. God is giving you information that is supposed to guide you. Your future success depends on how you handle the history that you are privileged to know. Receive wisdom from history and move into your realm of enlargement.





CHAPTER 5




Enlarge by a Series of Battles




		 			SO JOSHUA SMOTE ALL THE COUNTRY OF THE HILLS, and of the south, and of the vale, and of the springs, and all their kings: he left none remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the Lord God of Israel commanded.

			Joshua 10:40

		 			Enlarge by a series of battles. Do not be tired of fighting!

			Joshua and Caleb engaged in endless fighting from village to village, killing God’s enemies and taking new territories.

			You must be ready for endless fighting. You must be ready for war! You must be ready to engage in one war after another.

			Do not long for peace! Do not long for rest! Do not say to yourself, “Why do I have one issue after another? When will I have peace? When will I have rest?” Once you are in the season of enlargement you must expect one battle to follow another. You must expect endless fighting.

			When Moses died, Joshua entered a season of endless battles. The list of wars that Joshua went through is so long that I can only produce a few of his battles. A man who is into enlargement will have many battles.

			JOSHUA BATTLES FIVE AMORITE KINGS

			Therefore the five kings of the Amorites, the KING OF JERUSALEM, the KING OF HEBRON, the KING OF JARMUTH, the KING OF LACHISH, the KING OF EGLON, gathered themselves together, and went up, they and all their hosts, and encamped before Gibeon, and made war against it.

			And the men of Gibeon sent unto Joshua to the camp to Gilgal, saying, Slack not thy hand from thy servants; come up to us quickly, and save us, and help us: for all the kings of the Amorites that dwell in the mountains are gathered together against us.

			So Joshua ascended from Gilgal, he, and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valour .… And they did so, and brought forth those five kings unto him out of the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.

			Joshua 10:5-7, 23

			JOSHUA BATTLES MAKKEDAH

			And that day Joshua took MAKKEDAH, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and the king thereof he utterly destroyed, them, and all the souls that were therein; he let none remain: and he did to the king of Makkedah as he did unto the king of Jericho.

			Joshua 10:28

			JOSHUA BATTLES LIBNAH

			Then Joshua passed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, unto LIBNAH, and fought against Libnah:

			Joshua 10:29

			JOSHUA BATTLES LACHISH

			And the Lord delivered LACHISH into the hand of Israel, which took it on the second day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were therein, according to all that he had done to Libnah.

			Joshua 10:32

			JOSHUA SMITES GEZER

			Then Horam king of GEZER came up to help Lachish; and Joshua smote him and his people, until he had left him none remaining.

			Joshua 10:33

			JOSHUA FOUGHT AGAINST EGLON

			And from Lachish Joshua passed unto EGLON, and all Israel with him; and they encamped against it, and fought against it:

			Joshua 10:34

			JOSHUA FOUGHT AGAINST HEBRON

			And Joshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, unto HEBRON; and they fought against it:

			Joshua 10:36

			JOSHUA BATTLES DEBIR

			And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir; and fought against it:

			Joshua 10:38

			JOSHUA BATTLES THE COUNTRY OF THE HILLS

			So Joshua smote ALL THE COUNTRY OF THE HILLS, and of the south, and of the vale, and of the springs, and all their kings: he left none remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the Lord God of Israel commanded.

			Joshua 10:40

			JOSHUA BATTLES KADESH BARNEA

			And Joshua smote them from KADESH-BARNEA even unto Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, even unto Gibeon.

			Joshua 10:41

			JOSHUA BATTLES GAZA

			And Joshua smote them from Kadesh-barnea even unto GAZA, and all the country of Goshen, even unto Gibeon.

			Joshua 10:41

			JOSHUA BATTLES GOSHEN

			And Joshua smote them from Kadeshbarnea even unto Gaza, and all the country of GOSHEN, even unto Gibeon.

			Joshua 10:41

			 JOSHUA BATTLES GIBEON

			And Joshua smote them from Kadeshbarnea even unto Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, even unto GIBEON.

			Joshua 10:41

			It is impossible to say how many battles you are going to experience as you fight your way to experience the enlargement from God. Just like Joshua, you can expect many battles as you press on to enlargement.

			Battles You Can Expect

			1.	Expect battles at home: Expect to have a battle with your parents, your family and your home. There may be serious conflicts at home because of your calling. You may have conflict at home because of your children.

			Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword. For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law. And a man’s foes shall be they of his own household.

			Matthew 10:34-36

			2.	Expect battles in your bedroom: You may have battles in your marital bedroom. An anaconda or a python spirit will embrace you for life. This type of spirit slowly squeezes you for the rest of your life. The two snakes will not stop squeezing you until your life is over. Expect that battle to last your lifetime!

			3.	Expect financial battles: As you progress in the spirit of enlargement, expect to have financial battles. It costs a lot of money to accomplish anything in the ministry. You will always need money and there will always be a fight about money.

			4.	Expect battles over land: The devil will fight you about every piece of land. You must wage war and possess the lands that God has given you. Without land you cannot build the church and you cannot fulfil your calling.

			5.	Expect battles with disloyal people: There will be traitors! There will be sad days! There will be people you love who will not love you back. There will be people you care for who will repay your love with ungratefulness and wickedness.

			6.	Expect battles with wicked and unreasonable people: There are many unreasonable people who will not yield to reason. They become obstacles to your calling. There will be people who are stubborn, who never yield, never agree and who never bow to your wishes.

			7.	Expect battles with liars and deceivers: There will be liars! There will be deceivers. David, the psalmist, encountered these wicked and unreasonable liars. You must overcome in all these battles.

			Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise; For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue. They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause. For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself unto prayer. And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.

			Psalm 109:1-5

			God’s power is with you for a series of battles and a series of victories. You must be resolute. Your mind must be made up. Do not tire easily. After fighting on the left-hand side, just turn to the right and continue the fight there.





CHAPTER 6




Enlargement Is Born of the Spirit




		 			And it came to pass, when all the people were clean passed over Jordan, that the LORD spake unto Joshua, saying, Take you twelve men out of the people, out of every tribe a man, And command ye them, saying, Take you hence out of the midst of Jordan, out of the place where the priests’ feet stood firm, twelve stones, and ye shall carry them over with you, and leave them in the lodging place, where ye shall lodge this night.

			Joshua 4:1-3

		 			The Joshua generation who experienced enlargement from God were a super spiritual generation of young men. It is only by being super spiritual that you can experience enlargement and accomplish great things for God.

			The children of Israel took twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan river and took them to their lodging place. Enlargement started by Joshua obeying the Lord and taking the stones out of the river. The Jordan River speaks of the Holy Spirit. The stones that were taken out of the Jordan River tell us that Joshua and his team were a deeply spiritual group taking things only from the Holy Spirit. They were not interested in things that came from the secular world.

			Anyone who attempts great things for God must do so by being deeply spiritual. Many pastors are not spiritual and that is why they cannot enlarge into the will of God. The Joshua generation was not just a group of young people who were just excited about sports and music. Many people feel that when you are doing a programme for young people, you must have a lot of sports, dancing and music. Churches hold youth camps and instead of taking the stones out of the Jordan river, they take the stones out of the soccer and basketball fields. Their principle is, “Give the children some sports! Keep them active and busy so that they will not have energy to live a sinful life.” The power to overcome sin is not found in making people exhausted through sports and other activities. The power to overcome sin is found in the cross. The power of God is released into the lives of young people through the preaching of the cross.

			There is a generation of young people who will rise by being spiritual. Enlargement comes as you develop your spirit man. There are three parts to every man: the spirit, the soul and the flesh. If you develop the fleshly part of your life, you will become carnal. If you develop the soul part of you, you will become soulish. If you develop the spirit part of you, you will become spiritual. Spirituality is all about developing the spiritual parts of you.

			1.	Emphasize on the soul and become soulish:

			Enlargement will not come by developing the soul. Your soul has to do with the mind, the will and the emotions.

			People who emphasize on the soul give themselves to education and philosophy. Such people become great thinkers and logicians. They are theorists, academics and “truth” seekers. People who emphasize on the soul also become emotional. They find reasons for every emotional high and low. They give themselves to raising or lowering the emotion of the moment. Indeed, such people give themselves to music, love songs, love feelings and love poems. They constantly muse about relationships and desire relationships with the opposite sex. They are always teaching or exploring on what will make the relationship between a girl and a boy work better.

			2.	Emphasize on the flesh and become fleshly:

			Enlargement will not come by developing the flesh. Perhaps, a stronger body and a healthier life will come by developing the flesh.

			People who develop the flesh become body builders. They give themselves to health walks and health talks. They give themselves to the gym, to athletics, to exercise and to everything that will make them healthy and strong. Such people are constantly on one diet or another. Today, they eat eggs without egg yolk and on another occasion they have Macdonald’s hamburgers with ice-cold water. Such people are always drinking diet coke and watching their weight. Those who emphasize on the flesh spend a lot of time on make-up and also doing their hair. You cannot achieve much enlargement in God by becoming fleshly. The flesh dominates Christians whose lives are filled with these fleshly activities.

			3.	Emphasize on the spirit and become spiritual:

			Enlargement will come to those who become spiritual and pick stones out of the Jordan River. It is time to pick your gifts out of the Holy Spirit.

			People who give themselves to the Spirit become spiritual. Give yourself to the spirit world by giving yourself to the word of God and to prayer.

			That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, TO BE STRENGTHENED with might by his Spirit IN THE INNER MAN;

			Ephesians 3:16

			You become spiritual by developing the inner man - the hidden spirit within you, with the word of God. You become spiritual by becoming stronger in the inner man. Instead of emphasizing on the outward man, you must emphasize on the inner man. Your spirit feeds on the word of God.

			As you feed on the word of God through audio and video messages, your spirit grows bigger. As your spirit grows bigger, it dominates your life. As you can see from the scripture below, the spirit man can actually grow.

			As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may GROW thereby:

			1 Peter 2:2

			You become spiritual by developing the inner man and praying in tongues.

			But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost,

			Jude 1:20





CHAPTER 7




Enlarge through Victory over King Adonizedek




		 			Now it came to pass, when ADONIZEDEK king of Jerusalem had heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them; they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty.

			Wherefore ADONIZEDEK king of Jerusalem sent unto Hoham king of Hebron, and unto Piram king of Jarmuth, and unto Japhia king of Lachish, and unto Debir king of Eglon, saying, Come up unto me, and help me, that we may smite Gibeon: for it hath made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.

			Joshua 10:1-4

		 			Joshua entered into enlargement by fighting five demonic powers and princes that came against him. Five demonic kings attacked Joshua at the outset of his enlargement campaign. In this chapter, we will look at the first demonic king that you must encounter and overcome in your quest to achieve enlargement and growth in the ministry.

			First of all, to enlarge the ministry, you need to fight the power of King Adonizedek. Adonizedek represents a demonic king who came against the people of God. Whatever fights the people of God is fighting God’s purpose. Adonizedek means, “My lord is righteous.”

			This speaks of a demonic form of righteousness. Adonizedek is the prince of self-righteousness. Adonizedek is the prince of self-deception. He is the prince of pride. Adonizedek is the prince of unrighteous judgment. Demonic righteousness is self-righteousness and unrighteous judgment. All forms of righteousness that do not come from the blood of Jesus are demonic. No one is good enough and no one will pass the test if placed under a microscope.

			As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one:

			Romans 3:10

			This demonic form of righteousness is what possessed the Pharisees when Jesus came to this earth.

			Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment.

			John 7:24

			Self-righteousness and unrighteous judgment are the demonic powers that prevented the whole of Israel from receiving the Messiah. They are demonic power that cut off an entire nation from its salvation. Adonizedek, is therefore, a major power that will keep you from the purposes of God.

			Many good people do not enter the ministry. Many good people are morally upright. They do not quarrel, they do not smoke, they do not drink, they do not commit fornication, they have stable marriages, they have nice children, they have nice anniversaries, they give nice speeches, they are icons of the society, people speak well of them, they pay school fees for other people, they visit orphanages and they are pleasant people. At their birthday parties, people give speeches about how good they are and how wonderful and kind they have been through the years. Unfortunately, such nice people would not often go on an evangelistic crusade to win souls or become missionaries who plant churches in the world. The Great Commission, the lost and dying souls of this world, are often not the concern of these wonderful ideal Christians. In all your goodness, can you be described as someone who has hazarded his life for the gospel?

			It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, Men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

			Acts 15:25-26

			Do not under-estimate the power of self-righteousness and unrighteous judgment. Self-righteousness tells you that there is nothing lacking and nothing that you need to do. Self-righteousness deceives you. Adonizedek is the prince of self-deception. He is the prince of pride. That is why he met Joshua in the beginning of his campaign to enlarge the kingdom of God. Satan does not want you to do anything to enlarge the kingdom of God. Adonizedek is the power that meets you and says, “Go back, you are good enough! We do not need extremists and radical Christians. Just be normal. Stay at home and go to church for two hours every week.”

			To illustrate the power of self-righteousness and unrighteous judgment to prevent believers from enlarging into the will of God, I want us to look at a parable that Jesus told.

			And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

			Luke 18:9-14

			From this story, we see the power of Adonizedek, a demonic form of righteousness. We see its characteristics. Notice five pillars of self-righteousness that are revealed by Jesus’ parable.

			Five Pillars of Self-Righteousness

			1.	A person with this form of self-righteousness is self-deceived and makes a wrong assessment of himself. Self-righteous people are self-deceived. Notice the man said, I thank God I am not as other men are. Jesus spoke this parable about certain people who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and despised others. To trust in yourself reveals a high level of deception! Most Christians have made the wrong assessment of themselves and feel that they are okay to live happily ever after without working for God.

			2.	A person with this form of self-righteousness makes erroneous comparisons with others. The Bible warns us against comparing ourselves with others (2 Corinthians 10:12). Paul said he would not dare to make any comparisons. It is not wise to compare because few things are equal. When a man falls into temptation and another does not, there are often factors that make things different. When you overcome a temptation, you may actually score less than someone who fell for the same temptation. There may indeed be factors which helped you to overcome. Stop comparing your church with churches that are not doing well. Stop comparing yourself with people who have fallen in sin. Many ministries are not doing the right things today. Nations which used to be the epicentre of Christianity have fallen away from true Christianity. It is a big mistake to compare yourself with those who are not walking in the will of God.

			For we dare not make ourselves of the number, or compare ourselves with some that commend themselves: but they measuring themselves by themselves, and comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise.

			2 Corinthians 10:12

			3.	A person with this form of self-righteousness has a list of things that he does not do. Notice this man said he was not an extortioner, he was not unjust, he was not an adulterer and he was not like the publican who was standing there. People who suffer from this demonic form of unrighteous judgment use the things they have not done as the greatest indication of their righteousness. Someone said, “I don’t harm anyone. I don’t steal. I don’t cheat. I do commit fornication but I do not sleep with people’s husbands.” This is an unfortunate way of assessing yourself. Self-righteousness and unrighteous judgment are grievous mistakes! Most of us have not done certain things because we have not been exposed to them, and not because we are righteous. Demonic self-righteousness will keep you from the purposes of God. It is nice that you have not committed certain sins before, but what have you done for the Lord?

			4.	A person with this form of self-righteousness has a list of rules that he keeps. Demonic righteousness is self-righteousness and unrighteous judgment. As they keep the rules that have been created, they develop a confidence in themselves as being good people. This self-righteousness is a set of rules that people keep to. Notice how this Pharisee was quick to mention his fasting and his giving. I fast twice in a week and I give tithes of all that I possess. Thank God for things you do. But there are many things that you are supposed to do that you are probably not doing.

			5.	A person with this form of self-righteousness is proud. It is only a person who is proud who would trust in himself and despise others. This man was full of pride and looked down on other people. Self-righteousness is synonymous with smugness, complacency, conceit, haughtiness, self-satisfaction, which develops into pretentiousness and full-blown hypocrisy. Self-righteousness is a fountain of pride.

			Today, you must decide not to trust in yourself. You must trust in the righteousness that comes from believing and obeying God. Obey God and move into your realm of enlargement. Do not let your past achievements deceive you. Do not let your morality deceive you. Do not let the things you have not done minister pride to you. You are worse than the worst sinner. Lift up your head and listen to the voice of God. Follow his commandment and trust yourself to obeying and pleasing God. As you believe and obey, it is counted to you as righteousness.

			For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness.

			Romans 4:3





CHAPTER 8




Enlarge through Victory over King Hoham




		 			Now it came to pass, when Adonizedek king of Jerusalem had heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them; That they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty.

			Wherefore Adonizedek king of Jerusalem sent unto HOHAM king of Hebron, and unto Piram king of Jarmuth, and unto Japhia king of Lachish, and unto Debir king of Eglon, saying, Come up unto me, and help me, that we may smite Gibeon: for it hath made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.

			Joshua 10:1-4

		 			Five demonic kings attacked Joshua at the outset of his enlargement campaign. In this chapter, we will look at the second demonic king that you must overcome in your quest to achieve enlargement and growth in the ministry.

			The second demonic prince you need to fight in order to enlarge and expand your ministry is the demonic power of King HOHAM. King HOHAM represents a demonic king who came against the people of God. Whatever fights the people of God is fighting God’s purpose. HOHAM means to impel, to drive and to urge.

			There are many things that are demonic compulsions. There are longings, lusts and yearnings that build up in us. Many of these are demonic in origin. King HOHAM is a symbol of demonic desires, cravings, needs, wishes and impulses that come to you to destroy your ministry.

			Being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing: and when they were ended, he afterward hungered. And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread.

			Luke 4:2-3

			There are many demonic urges that come to pastors and Christian leaders through the flesh. In order to serve God, you must kill, quench and extinguish all demonic urges in your life. Many desires and urges are prompted by the devil. When Jesus was in the wilderness, waiting on God, He began to have urges to convert the stones that were lying about into bread. The hunger He felt was so strong! These terrible demonic urges and feelings were impressed upon Him in the wilderness. We can see from scripture that the urge to turn stones into bread was demonic in its origin. The urge was actually a satanically inspired craving and yearning.

			If Jesus Christ could have such urges, cravings and longings, then you must expect the same thing. You must overcome urges and longings to sleep. You must overcome the strong yearning to eat.

			You must overcome urges to have sex with ladies you meet. You must overcome demonic cravings to have sex with every beautiful lady you encounter. You must overcome evil passions that build up and drive you to commit fornication and adultery. You must overcome the urge to watch pornography. Whatever is driving you to spend time studying pornography is cursed in the name of Jesus! Whatever urge you have to take over someone’s husband is cursed!

			You must overcome the urge to have more and more money. You must overcome the urge to steal. You must overcome the urge to smoke cigarettes! You must dry out the desire to smoke weed. You must overcome the urge to drink alcohol. You must stamp out the craving and longing for drugs. You must extinguish all wicked impulses to fight, kill and steal.

			King Hoham is a demonic power whose name means to impel, to urge, to drive. Today begins your victory over King Hoham and all the wicked cravings, desires, urges and impulses that he inspires.

			“Which when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the people, crying out, And saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? WE ALSO ARE MEN OF LIKE PASSIONS WITH YOU, AND PREACH UNTO YOU that ye should turn from these vanities unto the living God, which made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all things that are therein:” (Acts 14:14-15)

			People who are preachers are men of like passions and desires. Paul explained clearly that he was a man of passions, desires and cravings but these did not prevent him from preaching the gospel.





CHAPTER 9




Enlarge through Victory over King Piram




		 			Now it came to pass, when Adonizedek king of Jerusalem had heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them; That they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty.

			Wherefore Adonizedek king of Jerusalem sent unto Hoham king of Hebron, and unto PIRAM king of Jarmuth, and unto Japhia king of Lachish, and unto Debir king of Eglon, saying, Come up unto me, and help me, that we may smite Gibeon: for it hath made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.

			Joshua 10:1-4

		 			The next demonic power you need to fight in order to enlarge your ministry is the demonic power of King PIRAM. King PIRAM represents a demonic king who came against the people of God. Whatever fights the people of God is fighting God’s purpose. PIRAM means a wild ass, the demonic power of wild spirits and attacks.

			PIRAM speaks of a wild ass. What does a wild ass speak of? A spirit of a wild ass is the spirit of being uncontrollable. An uncontrollable spirit makes you uncontrollable. Satan wants to turn you into a wild and uncontrollable person.

			A wild rebellious spirit is one that is out of control, no longer under submission. The more you overcome the devil in your life, the more controllable you will be.

			Three Reasons for Overcoming the Wildness of King Piram

			1.	Being controllable reveals that you have a balanced approach to the word of God.

			Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.

			2 Timothy 2:15

			One day, one of my disciples was angrily emphasizing how every man of God must be left to follow the Holy Spirit. He felt the people in the church should be allowed to do what they believed instead of following instructions from those higher than them.

			He said, “It is not following the apostle Paul that makes you a son of God.” He said, “It is in following the Spirit that makes you a son of God.” Indeed, this is true because Romans 8:14 says, “... as many as are led by the spirit of God, they are the sons of God.”

			He also said, “Sometimes, to obey God and to be about His business, you must disobey man or a man of God.” This is also true because when Jesus was about His Father’s business, He was clearly not where His parents wanted Him to be. He even seemed to be disobeying His parents who were clearly upset with Him.

			These statements have some truth in them. Such statements also have some scriptural support. Indeed, Peter said we must rather obey God than men.

			Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men.

			Acts 5:29

			But half-truths are dangerous things. Satan thrives on half-truths. The whole universe is in a fallen state because Adam and Eve believed the half-truths that satan told them. Scripture is clear about the need to obey people that have the rule over you. Scripture is also clear about the importance of submitting yourself.

			OBEY THEM THAT HAVE THE RULE OVER YOU, AND SUBMIT YOURSELVES: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you.

			Hebrews 13:17

			Therefore, being controlled by men reveals you are under submission. Submission is a beautiful trait that reveals humility. Without humility you are not going anywhere!

			2.	Being controllable reveals the Holy Spirit in you.

			The more demons you have in you, the more uncontrollable you will be. Demons are uncontrollable spirits who rebelled against God. They do not want to be in submission to the heavenly authority. This is why the mad man of Gadara was uncontrollable. He was demon-possessed. The more the devil is in you, the wilder you become. The more you have the Holy Spirit, the more submissive you will be. Read the scripture below. You will see the effects of being filled with the Holy Spirit. When you are filled with the Holy Spirit, you will be thankful, you will sing spiritual songs, you will make melody in your heart to the Lord and you will be submissive.

			And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but BE FILLED WITH THE SPIRIT; Speaking to yourselves in Psalm and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord; Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ; SUBMITTING YOURSELVES ONE TO ANOTHER in the fear of God.

			Ephesians 5:18-21

			Do not let anyone fool you with rebellion. Rebellious people are possessed with devils of self-destruction. Every rebellious person has a fire within himself. This fire that comes from within, consumes and eventually destroys the person.

			Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude of thine iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick; therefore will I BRING FORTH A FIRE FROM THE MIDST OF THEE, IT SHALL DEVOUR THEE, and I will bring thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all them that behold thee.

			Ezekiel 28:18

			Sometimes the fire from within is the way a person speaks. Sometimes, the way a person speaks turns against him and destroys him. Rebels often hang themselves with their own words. The words that are coming out of the rebel is the fire from within. When your slander, your backbiting, your gossiping and your treachery is revealed, it completely unravels you and destroys you. When you discover that a person you trust is speaking against you secretly, that person loses his position of trust forever. There are some mistakes that you cannot recover from. Rebellious and wild people speak words that destroy themselves.

			3.	Being controllable reveals your maturity.

			When Jesus rose from the dead, He said something profound to Peter:

			He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, feed my sheep. Verily, verily, I say unto thee, when thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be old, THOU SHALT STRETCH FORTH THY HANDS, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not.

			John 21:17-18

			In this message Jesus was saying to Peter, “When you are young, you are wild and uncontrollable. As you mature, you humbly stretch forth your hands and allow another person to bind you and carry you to places you do not want to go to.”

			Jesus was saying to Peter, “When you are mature you will be controllable. You will allow yourself to be controlled, guided and carried.” Is it not amazing that maturity rather makes you controllable and submissive? You would have thought that the older and more experienced you get, the more uncontrollable you become. It is the opposite. The more mature you are, the more mellow, sober and submissive you become.

			You must overcome the demonic power of Piram that speaks of being wild and uncontrollable.

			Remember that being controllable is actually a sign of maturity. It is not a sign that you are weak. It is not a sign that you are a “small boy”. Being controllable is not a sign that you are a nobody. It is a sign of your maturity, your faith and your trust. Jesus told Peter, “When you are old, when you are mature, when you are developed and established, you will stretch out your hands and someone else will carry you to places that you do not even want to go to.” Indeed, that is a sign of trust and love.





CHAPTER 10




Enlarge through Victory over King Japhia




		 			Now it came to pass, when Adonizedek king of Jerusalem had heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them; That they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty.

			Wherefore Adonizedek king of Jerusalem sent unto Hoham king of Hebron, and unto Piram king of Jarmuth, and unto JAPHIA king of Lachish, and unto Debir king of Eglon, saying, Come up unto me, and help me, that we may smite Gibeon: for it hath made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.

			Joshua 10:1-4

		 			Enlargement is only possible when you fight and conquer all the five demonic powers that confront you at the beginning of your ministry.

			The next demonic power you need to fight in order to enlarge your ministry is the demonic power of King JAPHIA. King JAPHIA represents a demonic king who came against the people of God. Whatever fights the people of God is fighting God’s purpose. JAPHIA means “shining”.

			You must overcome all shining and attractive things in this world. As long as you are consumed by the demonic and deceptive shine of King JAPHIA, you cannot do much for God.

			One missionary said, “Shame on London.” He had been attracted to the city of London so much that he had not been of much use to God. Our world is filled with shiny and attractive deceptions. Many things are made to shine and look far more glamorous than they really are.

			Once you are attracted to the glamour and the glitter in this world you will not be of much use to God. The world is full of deceptions. The god of this world has ensured that everything in this world is based on shiny deceptions.

			Three Shining Deceptions You Must Overcome

			1.	You must overcome the shining deceptions and attractions of money and riches.

			If you do not overcome the deception of riches, you will follow it and it leads you to nothingness. This is why Jesus said, “Do not lay up treasures on earth. Lay up treasures in heaven” (Matthew 6:19-20). Do not be attracted to the riches and wealth of this world.

			For in one hour so great riches is come to nought. And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off,

			Revelation 18:17

			People who follow the demonic power of Japhia will amount to nothing in God. People cannot go on church planting missions because the demonic shining rewards of silver and gold neutralize the call of God.

			2.	You must overcome the shining deceptions and attractions of glamorous cities.

			Standing afar off for the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great city Babylon, that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgment come. And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more: The merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble, And cinnamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves, and souls of men.

			And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all. The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing, And saying, Alas, alas, that great city, that was clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stones, and pearls!

			Revelation 18:10-16

			Those fulfilling their ministries are often found in poor and humble towns and villages. Jesus sent us to preach the gospel to the poor. You and I have been sent to preach the gospel to the poor. The more you are attracted to glamorous cities, the less you can go where you are supposed to go.

			3.	You must overcome the shining deceptions and attractions of beautiful women.

			Many beautiful women attract a series of men to themselves. They shine, they sparkle and they call for you, as they have called for a host of others. Being a spiritual man who is called to build the kingdom of God, you must overcome the spirit of Japhia that operates through some shiny, glamorous and attractive women.

			For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies. And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues. For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.

			Revelation 18:3-5

			The more attractive a woman is, the more you must be careful about her. Beauty is vain! A lot of beauty often implies a lot of vanity. That is why you must be careful about shining beauties. A shining, glorious and attractive woman can take away your ministry through the spirit of King Japhia. You are overcoming every demonic King Japhia that has targeted you!





CHAPTER 11




Enlarge through Victory over King Debir




		 			Now it came to pass, when Adonizedek king of Jerusalem had heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them; That they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty.

			Wherefore Adonizedek king of Jerusalem sent unto Hoham king of Hebron, and unto Piram king of Jarmuth, and unto Japhia king of Lachish, and unto DEBIR king of Eglon, saying, Come up unto me, and help me, that we may smite Gibeon: for it hath made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.

			Joshua 10:1-4

		 			The Joshua generation are a group that fight and conquer all five demonic powers that are out to prevent enlargement, expansion, development, growth and improvement. The Joshua generation will conquer King DEBIR.

			King Debir is the next demonic power you need to fight in order to enlarge your ministry. Enlarge your ministry by conquering the demonic power of King DEBIR. King DEBIR will fight you because he is fighting God’s purpose.

			DEBIR means pastureless. That is a demonic power that causes you to have no pasture to feed on. No pasture! No pastor! No teacher! It is a spirit of emptiness. It is a spirit of pride and emptiness that disconnects you from every fellowship that you belong to. The Lord is your Shepherd and He always wants to bring you to green pastures. The Lord wants you to have a pasture! Satan is trying to do the opposite. He is trying to make you pastureless. Satan wants you to be pastureless!

			Your pasture is where you feed. Satan wants you to be pastureless. He wants you to have no teacher, no pastor and no feeder. Enlargement only comes when you have a pasture. Enlargement in your ministry will start by God revealing a pasture, a shepherd and a teacher to you. You must overcome the power of DEBIR that seeks to make you a man who is pastureless.

			Then shall he give the rain of thy seed, that thou shalt sow the ground withal; and bread of the increase of the earth, and it shall be fat and plenteous: in that day shall thy cattle feed in large pastures.

			Isaiah 30:23

			A pasture is a collection of food for sheep. A pasture is vast amounts of food that is needed by the sheep. Without this collection, you will be pastureless.

			I had been a Christian for so many years. I was serving the Lord and working in the church. But when the season of enlargement came, God revealed Kenneth Hagin to me. Suddenly, I was no longer pastureless. I had a whole collection of preaching material and a whole collection of books to read. Right before me were green pastures with amazing juicy green grass. As I fed from this pasture that God had revealed to me, I began to grow bigger in the spirit and I began to give birth to many sheep. I enlarged and expanded in the ministry because I overcame the condition of being pastureless. Indeed, I overcame the demonic King of Debir who stood to make me pastureless.

			Four Types of Pastures You Can Have

			1.	The Bible is your biggest pasture. It is a collection of sixty-six books. You can feed on this collection for your whole life. When you begin to understand the Bible, you have discovered the most amazing pasture of your life. You are no longer pastureless. You have overcome the demonic power of Debir.

			2.	A series of books is a pasture.

			The PASTURES are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.

			Psalm 65:13

			Most authors have a series of books. It is that series of books that makes up the pasture. Always remember that the pasture is a vast collection of materials that feed you. When God blesses you with an author, make sure you get all the books and read all of them because there are amazing secrets hidden in all of them. Have you ever wondered why sheep roam all over the field? They are searching for the secret meals that make all the difference.

			3.	A series of audio messages is a pasture.

			The demonic power of Debir is trying to keep you away from this large collection. The “Machaneh1” is an amazing collection of audio messages that will change your ministry forever.

			4.	A series of video messages is a pasture.

			 Rise up today and get that series of video messages which is a pasture for you. This collection of videos of sermons will become an amazing pasture that will change your life. The demonic powers are constantly seeking to make you pastureless. You will begin to go higher as you feed on these amazing pastures God has for you.

			That thou mayest say to the prisoners, Go forth; to them that are in darkness, Shew yourselves. They shall feed in the ways, and their PASTURES shall be in all high places.

			Isaiah 49:9

			1. A collection of life-changing messages preached at different church camp meetings by the author, Bishop Dag Heward-Mills.





CHAPTER 12




Enlarge by Involving Everyone in the Work




		 			But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed thing: for Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took of the accursed thing: and the anger of the LORD was kindled against the children of Israel. And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Bethaven, on the east side of Bethel, and spake unto them, saying, Go up and view the country. And the men went up and viewed Ai. And they returned to Joshua, and said unto him, LET NOT ALL THE PEOPLE GO UP; BUT LET ABOUT TWO OR THREE THOUSAND MEN GO UP AND SMITE AI; AND MAKE NOT ALL THE PEOPLE TO LABOUR THITHER; for they are but few. So there went up thither of the people about three thousand men: and they fled before the men of Ai. And THE MEN OF AI SMOTE OF THEM about thirty and six men: for they chased them from before the gate even unto Shebarim, and smote them in the going down: wherefore the hearts of the people melted, and became as water. And Joshua rent his clothes, and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the LORD until the eventide, he and the elders of Israel, and put dust upon their heads.

			Joshua 7:1-6

		 			Enlargement is achieved when all the people in the church are mobilized to do the work of God. In most churches, just a few people get involved in the work. One of Joshua’s greatest mistakes and defeats was when he went up to war with just a section of the nation. He took only three thousand men to fight against the city of Ai. He was soundly defeated and many of the Israelites were killed.

			There was also a spiritual reason why they were defeated. There was sin in their camp. The spiritual sin is what made them take steps in the natural that would lead to their defeat. God was not pleased with them so their wisdom was defective! What was this defective wisdom? It was the mistake of involving only a section of the people in the campaign. After they were soundly defeated and after they repented of their sin, God gave them better wisdom for the campaign. This time, they had the idea of involving everyone in the war. Notice how radically different the strategy was this time.

			And the Lord said unto Joshua, Fear not, neither be thou dismayed: TAKE ALL THE PEOPLE OF WAR WITH THEE, and arise, go up to Ai: see, I have given into thy hand the king of Ai, and his people, and his city, and his land: And thou shalt do to Ai and her king as thou didst unto Jericho and her king: only the spoil thereof, and the cattle thereof, shall ye take for a prey unto yourselves: lay thee an ambush for the city behind it. SO JOSHUA AROSE, AND ALL THE PEOPLE OF WAR, TO GO UP AGAINST AI: and Joshua chose out thirty thousand mighty men of valour, and sent them away by night.

			Joshua 8:1-3

			Notice that in Joshua chapter seven, they took only three thousand people and in Joshua chapter eight they took all the people. If you want to experience the enlargement that God is taking you to, then understand the wisdom of involving all the people.

			Do not departmentalize evangelism. Do not make evangelism a side mission. Do not let the outreach of the church be done by a few people. Do not allow prayer to be done by a section of the church. Do not departmentalize full-time ministry. Everyone must be all out! Everyone must be ready to die for the Lord. Everyone must go on missions. Everyone must serve the Lord with all their heart and their soul. All through the Bible, you will see God stretching forth His hand to raise up many people. It is always a mistake to departmentalize what God has given to everybody. Notice how God always extends His hand to everyone.

			God Calls All People

			1.	All who labour and are heavy laden are pulled into the work of God.

			Come unto me, ALL YE THAT LABOUR and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.

			Matthew 11:28

			2.	God sends us to all people in the world.

			And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.

			Mark 16:15

			3.	God draws all men to Himself.

			And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me.

			John 12:32

			4.	God wants all men to be saved. God wants all men to come to the knowledge of the truth.

			Who will have ALL MEN to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth.

			 1 Timothy 2:4

			5.	God commands all men to repent and to change their minds.

			And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now commandeth ALL MEN every where to repent:

			Acts 17:30

			6.	God saves all men by His power.

			For therefore we both labour and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Saviour of ALL MEN, specially of those that believe.

			1 Timothy 4:10

			7.	God teaches all nations.

			Go ye therefore, and teach ALL NATIONS, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:

			Matthew 28:19





CHAPTER 13




Enlarge by Having a Proper Respect for Curses




		 			And the Lord said unto Joshua, Get thee up; wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face? Israel hath sinned, and they have also transgressed my covenant which I commanded them: for they have even taken of the accursed thing, and have also stolen, and dissembled also, and they have put it even among their own stuff. THEREFORE THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL COULD NOT STAND BEFORE THEIR ENEMIES, BUT TURNED THEIR BACKS BEFORE THEIR ENEMIES, BECAUSE THEY WERE ACCURSED: neither will I be with you any more, except ye destroy the accursed from among you.

			Joshua 7:10-12

		 			Beginning from this chapter, you will operate in the fullness of blessings! Whatever represents a curse is annulled in your life! This year, you will become a surprise both to yourself and the world around you!

			You will not succeed against the enemy when you are under a curse. The scripture above tells us that the children of Israel could not stand before the enemies because they were accursed. Curses are the reasons for failure, defeat, humiliation, frustration, depression, disgrace, poverty, backwardness, alienation, insufficiency, retrogression, degradation, decline, failure to thrive and downfall. You must have a proper respect for curses.

			Curses are strange things. They are relentless, inevitable, unavoidable conditions that persist in people’s lives until they are fully engulfed in failure, defeat, humiliation, disgrace and degradation. Many people do not have the proper respect that they ought to have for spiritual things. The prophet Isaiah warned the people not to be mockers. People make fun of curses but they will be shocked when the curses happen practically.

			For the Lord shall rise up as in mount Perazim, he shall be wroth as in the valley of Gibeon, that he may do his work, HIS STRANGE WORK; and bring to pass his act, HIS STRANGE ACT. Now therefore BE YE NOT MOCKERS, lest your bands be made strong: for I have heard from the Lord God of hosts a consumption, even determined upon the whole earth.

			Isaiah 28:21-22

			Enlargement is only possible if you respect the reality of blessings and curses. I realise that many Christians do not believe that curses are real. They also do not believe that blessings are real. Enlargement is only possible if you fight curses with all your might. You must do everything to neutralize curses in your life. Enlargement will only come when you put away accursed things and accursed activities. Joshua had to put aside the accursed things so that he could expand and enlarge. Without a proper respect for curses you will cross the line and activate curses in your life.

			Perhaps, the only things that can explain the world in which we live are curses and blessings. Many countries have enough oil, water, food, gold, silver and bauxite to meet the needs of the whole world. And yet, many people live in starvation, poverty and difficulty.

			The Second World War was fought between 1939 and 1945. Over fifty million people were killed during this war. After the war, everyone returned to their country and life continued exactly as it had been before the war began. It is as though madness made the world come together and kill each other for some years until they were tired of it all. Death, war, destruction and sadness came on the world without any good reason.

			Many things in our world do not make sense. In Africa, there is an abundance of oil, bauxite, gold, uranium, platinum and diamonds. Yet, the continent wallows in deep poverty and need. It is important to respect curses. I once heard a pastor saying to his congregation, “Let a curse be on me if I am lying.” And yet he was telling a big lie! I realised that this pastor did not have a proper respect for curses and blessings.

			If you want to experience enlargement, you must recognize that enlargement originates from blessings. The blessings that Israel experienced were spoken by Isaac. A few simple words determined the destiny of the nation, Israel. It is hard to explain the history of Israel without believing that these words of blessing have caused things to be the way they are. When Isaac was one hundred and thirty-seven years old, which was five years past the age at which his mother Sarah died, Isaac did not expect to live much longer. He called his sons, intending to pass on a blessing to his first-born son. These are the words of blessings he spoke:

			Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine: Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother’s sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.

			Genesis 27:28-29

			You will notice how these words have come to pass in the life of the nation Israel. Perhaps, the one who did not have a proper respect for curses in the family was Rebekah. Rebekah, the mother of Jacob seemed to take the curse of deception lightly. When Jacob complained that the curse would come on her, she simply said, “Don’t worry, let your curse come on me.” Jacob was afraid of the curse of being a deceiver. He knew that a deceiver is a cursed person. Deceivers often deceive themselves that they will not be cursed for their lies and deception.

			My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as A DECEIVER; and I SHALL BRING A CURSE upon me, and not a blessing. And his mother said unto him, UPON ME BE THY CURSE, my son: only obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

			Genesis 27:12-13

			Rebekah simply shrugged off the possibility of the curse that could come on her for deceiving Isaac. This is how lightly people take curses. Deceiving God’s servant brings curses. Many people in the ministry tell lies and take it lightly. They do not realise that they are bringing curses on themselves because of their deceptions. I have watched people tell lies and then shrug it off. Don’t worry, they say, “Tell a lie nothing will happen.” If you want to experience enlargement, you cannot shrug off the reality of curses like Rebekah did. After this incident, Rebekah was not heard of any more. Be careful that you do not bring the curse of the deceiver on yourself. Your deceptions will cause you to vanish from the earth and never be heard of again. You will wither and fade away into oblivion because of your lies and deception. All liars are truly cursed because liars bestow contempt and derision on the one they deceive!

			Even the death of Rebekah was not reported in the Bible. The death and burial of Deborah, Rebekah’s nurse, was reported. But there is no mention of when Rebekah died. Do not trivialize curses that are spoken. Take them seriously! You may not know how it will be implemented. Failure, defeat, humiliation, frustration, depression, disgrace, poverty, backwardness, alienation, insufficiency, retrogression, degradation, decline, failure to thrive and downfall are waiting for those who trivialize and belittle the power of curses.

			Beginning from now, every long-standing ordeal in your life comes to an end! You will never suffer from the curses of liars and deceivers! Every family curse, spell or enchantment is dropping off your life at this time! All attempts to shorten your life have failed in the name of Jesus! You are being re-positioned and re-aligned for a blessing instead of a curse!

			From today and beyond today, expect to be free from every captivity of hell in the name of Jesus! I declare blessings on your life in place of a curse!





CHAPTER 14




Enlarge with Equal Amounts of Spirituality and Wisdom




		 			So Joshua arose, and all the people of war, to go up against Ai: and Joshua chose out thirty thousand mighty men of valour, and sent them away by night. And he commanded them, saying, Behold, ye shall lie in wait against the city, even behind the city: go not very far from the city, but be ye all ready: And I, and all the people that are with me, will approach unto the city: and it shall come to pass, when they come out against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them, (For they will come out after us) till we have drawn them from the city; for they will say, They flee before us, as at the first: therefore we will flee before them. Then ye shall rise up from the ambush, and seize upon the city: for the Lord your God will deliver it into your hand. And it shall be, when ye have taken the city, that ye shall set the city on fire: according to the commandment of the Lord shall ye do. See, I have commanded you.

			Joshua 8:3-8

		 			The Joshua generation takes supernatural, spiritual and natural aspects of life equally seriously. After the defeat at Ai, the children of Israel came out with a strategy. They decided to use the strategy of an ambush. They did not just deal with the accursed situation in a spiritual way. Dealing with the curse was the spiritual way of fighting the war. The children of Israel now needed a good wisdom strategy to help them win the war.

			Enlargement involves strategy! Strategy is the art of using a series of wisdom steps to outwit your enemy. Enlargement involves dealing decisively and extremely with spiritual matters. Joshua and his team respected the importance of curses. They dealt with the accursed person and burnt the entire family of the disobedient person who had brought the curse into their camp. That is an extreme way of expunging the accursed thing from their midst.

			And Joshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah, and the silver, and the garment, and the wedge of gold, and his sons, and his daughters, and his oxen, and his asses, and his sheep, and his tent, and all that he had: and they brought them unto the valley of Achor. And Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us? the LORD shall trouble thee this day. And ALL ISRAEL STONED HIM WITH STONES, AND BURNED THEM WITH FIRE, AFTER THEY HAD STONED THEM WITH STONES. And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day. So the LORD turned from the fierceness of his anger. Wherefore the name of that place was called, The valley of Achor, unto this day.

			Joshua 7:24-26

			After dealing with the curse, Joshua and his team developed an extremely good wisdom strategy for dealing with the enemy. Their war strategy was so good that it is used today to teach military tactics.

			First of all, the wisdom of the children of Israel involved every one who could fight in this war.

			Secondly, the children of Israel used a strategy to deceive their enemy. They drew them out of their city and burnt down the homes of their enemies. All this was the strong application of wisdom. Extreme spirituality with extreme wisdom and strategy!

			The Joshua generation taught one of the greatest lessons of war. Don’t be drawn away from your work, your city, your calling by deceptive attacks. Deception will draw you away from God’s calling. Then your destiny will be burnt down to ashes.

			All forms of enlargement involve both the natural and the supernatural. You need to deal with the curse because it is a reality. But you also need a strategy that will make you wiser and stronger than your enemy. Many Christians are either too natural or too supernatural. Wisdom will make you strong, not weak.

			Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city.

			Ecclesiastes 7:19

			You Must Have Equal Amounts of Spirituality and Wisdom

			1.	Have equal amounts of spirituality and wisdom when you are doing academic exams. You must pray about your exams. You must even fast about your exams. After that, you must study as though your prayers will not count.

			2.	Have equal amounts of spirituality and wisdom when you are building the church. If you want to build the church, you must pray with all your heart and fast. You must wait on God. You must go to the prayer gardens and the wilderness to pray. It is important that you are as spiritual as possible. But after this, you must have a wise design for your church building. Many designs cannot be completed because they are too expensive and impractical. You must strategize and think through what you are building as though you do not even know about prayer.

			3.	Have equal amounts of spirituality and wisdom when you are growing the church. Church growth is another important area which involves high levels of spirituality and high levels of strategizing. You must pray for hours every day. You must wait on God. You must pray in the night. You must lie down in the presence of God. You must listen to messages and watch all the videos. You must read all the books. This is so important! After this, however, you must think and use strategy as though you have never prayed before. You must use maps, data, analysis, computers, buses and any other technology you can lay hands on to help you to build the church.

			4.	Have equal amounts of spirituality and wisdom when you are choosing a wife or a husband. When you are looking for a wife, you must wait on God. You must fast and pray. God will hear all your prayers. But that is not enough. You need to apply wisdom! You need to find out the temperament of the person you are getting married to. You must do certain medical check-ups to see whether you are really compatible. You must find out more things about the person you are praying about. Is the person mysterious? Is it a strange man or a strange woman? What exactly are you dealing with? Are your backgrounds similar or are you laying the foundation for incompatibility? Are you going to be an ill-married couple?





CHAPTER 15




Enlarge by Eliminating Covetousness




		 			And Achan answered Joshua, and said, Indeed I have sinned against the Lord God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done: When I SAW AMONG THE SPOILS A GOODLY BABYLONISH GARMENT, AND TWO HUNDRED SHEKELS OF SILVER, AND A WEDGE OF GOLD OF FIFTY SHEKELS WEIGHT, THEN I COVETED THEM, AND TOOK THEM; and, behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it. So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran unto the tent; and, behold, it was hid in his tent, and the silver under it. And they took them out of the midst of the tent, and brought them unto Joshua, and unto all the children of Israel, and laid them out before the Lord.

			And Joshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah, and the silver, and the garment, and the wedge of gold, and his sons, and his daughters, and his oxen, and his asses, and his sheep, and his tent, and all that he had: and they brought them unto the valley of Achor. And Joshua said, why hast thou troubled us? the Lord shall trouble thee this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones, and burned them with fire, after they had stoned them with stones. And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day. So the Lord turned from the fierceness of his anger. Wherefore the name of that place was called, the valley of Achor, unto this day.

			Joshua 7:20-26

		 			Covetousness is the desire and the campaign for money! Many who are in the ministry today have a strong desire for more and more money. Many who are in the ministry today are on a campaign for more and more money. Some of the ministers who are on a campaign for money are open about it. It is easy to see the open and sometimes arrogant drive for more money. Many ministers are on an insidious drive to acquire more and more earthly things. The Joshua generation avoids the “valley of covetous trouble”. The valley of covetous trouble is the valley of Achor. The valley of life’s troubles comes to the covetous and the money loving people of our world. The Joshua generation will expunge the spirit of covetousness. It is not possible to be enlarged without expunging covetousness.

			Recently, a great man of God told a young minister, “My ministry changed when I began to go after money. I wanted more and more money. I was making millions of dollars. But my emphasis changed from the ministry to raising more and more money.” I was amazed when I heard of this advice. I myself had noticed a change in this individual’s ministry. It was no longer as spiritual and anointed as I had known it to be.

			There is no question about the effect of money on ministry. Money changes everything! The desire for money, the working for money and the decisions that are made just because of money will change every ministry.

			Today, you may see great ministries on television constantly asking for money. Many of these ministries are quite different from what they set out to be. Money has an amazing effect on everything. Do not allow covetousness to change your ministry.

			Five Effects of Covetousness on the Anointing

			1.	Covetousness destroys the anointing.

			But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in DESTRUCTION and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

			1 Timothy 6:9-10

			Covetousness is the desire and the campaign for money. Covetousness destroys the anointing. Be careful of the destruction that comes to the anointing when you focus on money. The scripture above states that men drown in destruction because of covetousness. There is destruction to the anointing when covetousness is present. It is as though a person has half of the anointing that he originally had. Why is this the case? When the anointed person shares scriptures about money all the time, the Spirit and the presence are usually not there. Although the person is speaking the word of God, the presence of God is absent! The word of God and the presence of God would have made everything complete. But the word of God without the presence of God waters down the ministry. It is as though half of the engines are not firing. Indeed, there is destruction to the anointing when covetousness is present.

			2.	Covetousness hurts the anointing.

			But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and HURTFUL lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

			1 Timothy 6:9-10

			Covetousness is the desire and the campaign for money. Covetousness hurts the anointing. Foolish and hurtful desires are the portion of those who love money. Desiring money and going after it is a very dangerous activity.

			People that are filled with covetousness have many desires that others do not have. They have many longings and yearnings for useless things. They desire the toys of the rich, famous and wealthy. These longings and cravings make them commit sin. Always remember that many desires are demonic in origin. When Jesus had the desire to turn stones into bread, it was because satan was present in the wilderness with him, stirring up all those desires.

			3.	Covetousness misleads the anointing.

			But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, THEY HAVE ERRED FROM THE FAITH, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

			1 Timothy 6:9-10

			Covetousness is the desire and the campaign for money. Covetousness misleads the anointed and his anointing. Almost everyone who deviated in ministry did so because of the love of money. People who are filled with the love of money start to go off-course. The origins of errors in many ministries can be found in the rising lust for money. People that are filled with covetousness have another vision apart from the one that God gave them. They take decisions that earn more money not decisions that win more souls.

			The desire for money becomes the basis for many decisions that are taken in ministry. Since most of the world is poor, a large part of the world is out of reach for men of covetousness.

			4.	Covetousness traps the anointing.

			But they that will be rich fall into temptation and A SNARE, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

			1 Timothy 6:9-10

			Covetousness is the desire and the campaign for money. Covetousness traps the anointing. Many anointed people are trapped by their covetousness. Have you not noticed that people who have a strong desire for money cannot go beyond certain borders and limits? They will not hazard their lives for Christ. Remember the life of Apostle Paul. He was someone who hazarded his life for the gospel.

			It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, Men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

			 Acts 15:25-26

			5.	Covetousness introduces evil into the anointing.

			For the love of money is the ROOT OF ALL EVIL: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

			1 Timothy 6:10

			Covetousness is the desire and the campaign for money. Covetousness introduces evil into the life of the anointed. Many evils are the result of people looking for money. Rich people and those in search of more and more money are engaged in more evil than the average person. The love of money is the root of all evil. Covetousness is the love of money. Almost every sin in the world is connected to money. Lying, stealing, fornication, adultery, drugs, murder are all connected to money. All anointed people can be corrupted by the desire for more and more money.





CHAPTER 16




Enlarge Without Being Presumptuous




		 			And Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled by the way of the wilderness. And all the people that were in Ai were called together to pursue after them: and they pursued after Joshua, and were drawn away from the city. And there was not a man left in Ai or Bethel, that went not out after Israel: and they left the city open, and pursued after Israel. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Stretch out the spear that is in thy hand toward Ai; for I will give it into thine hand. And Joshua stretched out the spear that he had in his hand toward the city.

			And the ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as soon as he had stretched out his hand: and they entered into the city, and took it, and hasted and set the city on fire. And WHEN THE MEN OF AI LOOKED BEHIND THEM, THEY SAW, AND, BEHOLD, THE SMOKE OF THE CITY ASCENDED UP TO HEAVEN, AND THEY HAD NO POWER TO FLEE this way or that way: and the people that fled to the wilderness turned back upon the pursuers.

			Joshua 8:15-20

		 			The people of Ai made a great mistake when they rushed out against the children of Israel. They assumed that they would win the second round because the first time had been so easy.

			You must enlarge without being presumptuous! From this time onwards you will experience unlimited enlargement in your life and ministry.

			You must enlarge without absolutely exposing yourself to danger. The Joshua generation will not leave their city open to attack, no matter what they are doing or achieving. It is important to remain humble and realise that you can still be defeated.

			You may have had an early victory over your enemy. But that enemy can rise up again. There is always the possibility of a greater and more sophisticated attack from your enemy.

			At the beginning of the Second World War, Adolf Hitler fought with the British and the French. Adolf Hitler and the German Armed Forces fought against and defeated the French and the British. In 1940, Britain was totally defeated and driven out of France. Indeed, their whole army was almost wiped out in Dunkirk.

			However, on the 6th of June 1944, this same British army returned to Europe and fought against the same Germans. This time, they defeated them overwhelmingly and marched all the way to Berlin to take Hitler out of power. Do not under-estimate an enemy you seem to have defeated before. Notice that the devil does not go away forever.

			And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season.

			Luke 4:13

			Three Times You Must Not be Presumptuous

			1.	Do not assume that you can minister without praying. Prayer is a defence. Prayer is part of the armour of God. Many ministers do not pray. When you do not pray, it often seems as though it does not have any bad effects on you. However, prayerlessness creates a dangerous gap in your armour.

			And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God: Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;

			Ephesians 6:17-18

			2.	Do not assume that you can live an immoral life and get away with it. You may not be discovered today but it will surely destroy you. Babylon is fallen because of her fornication. Fornication can turn you into a fallen minister. The fact that you have not been discovered does not mean that your fornication and immorality have no effect.

			And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.

			Revelation 14:8

			3.	Do not assume that you can do ministry without preparation. Preparation and study are necessary for the ministry. When you do not study or prepare you will be ashamed. The people of Ai were ashamed because they assumed that the children of Israel would be a small matter for them. They rushed out unprepared and were destroyed.

			Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.

			2 Timothy 2:15





CHAPTER 17




Enlarge to the Uttermost




		 			And it came to pass, when Israel had made an end of slaying all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness wherein they chased them, and when they were all fallen on the edge of the sword, until they were consumed, that all the Israelites returned unto Ai, and smote it with the edge of the sword. And so it was, that all that fell that day, both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai. FOR JOSHUA DREW NOT HIS HAND BACK, WHEREWITH HE STRETCHED OUT THE SPEAR, UNTIL HE HAD UTTERLY DESTROYED ALL THE INHABITANTS OF AI. Only the cattle and the spoil of that city Israel took for a prey unto themselves, according unto the word of the LORD which he commanded Joshua.

			And Joshua burnt Ai, and made it an heap for ever, even a desolation unto this day. And the king of Ai he hanged on a tree until eventide: and as soon as the sun was down, Joshua commanded that they should take his carcase down from the tree, and cast it at the entering of the gate of the city, and raise thereon a great heap of stones, that remaineth unto this day.

			Joshua 8:24-28

		 			Enlargement is only possible when you have a vision to go all the way.

			You must finish off the enemies of the cross forever. You must wipe out every opposition to your calling.

			The Joshua generation will not draw back their hand till all is accomplished. Joshua utterly destroyed the enemies of God.

			You will enlarge to the uttermost.

			Your ministry must lift itself up in vision. The order of ministry you must seek must be the “order of the uttermost”. You must seek to have a ministry that is after the order of the word of God.

			Jesus Christ did not just send people into a neighbourhood. He sent people into the uttermost parts of the world. Most people have a “neighbourhood” vision. But Jesus is sending us to the uttermost.

			But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the UTTERMOST PART of the earth.

			Acts 1:8

			Beginning from now, your ministry is climbing into the “uttermost” order of ministry! You will be counted amongst the uttermost mega churches, uttermost ministries and furthest reaching ministries of the world.

			From this year and beyond, every form of stagnation, frustration and failure is broken in your life forever! You are receiving the anointing to go into the uttermost parts of the earth to utterly destroy the works of the devil.

			No more “community” ministry for you! No more “neighbourhood” ministry for you! No more localised, regional or district-based ministry for you! Receive the power of the spirit of Joshua to defeat the enemy to the uttermost! You shall emerge as one of the deliverers who will rescue humanity from the clutches of the devil.

			Beginning from today, there will be no more restrictions on your ministry, your church and your calling! You will be listed among the men who command spiritual power in your nation. You will be listed among the men who command attention in your country.

			When you do not have an uttermost vision, your ministry will remain small and undeveloped. But there is much more in you. God will accomplish much more through you.

			God did not call you to have a ministry that can just buy a car or a bus. God did not call you to just have a ministry that can just pay your rent. He called you to have a ministry that would reach the uttermost parts of the earth. Many ministers are happy when their ministries can just pay their rent, buy a car and buy a ticket to go to America. But there is more to ministry than paying these bills. Read the words of Jesus carefully. You are called to the uttermost parts of the earth.

			One day, I felt the Lord asking me a question. “What will you say when you come to heaven and I ask you about Judea?”

			I thought to myself, “What is Judea?”

			Then the Lord said, “Judea is next to your Jerusalem.”

			I thought to myself, “If Ghana is my Jerusalem, then Togo, Benin, Cote d’Ivoire and Burkina Faso must be my Judea.”

			That was when I realised that I had very little fruits in Judea. I had been praising myself for nothing and thinking that I had fulfilled the Great Commission. But I had not even achieved anything in Judea. Although I had churches in Ghana, I had very little fruits in Judea. I had very little going on in Togo, Benin, Cote d’Ivoire and Burkina Faso.

			It is easy to think you have finished, when in reality you have done little or nothing. Most ministries have done little or nothing.

			It is time to emerge as one of the world-impacting “uttermost” ministries of your generation. Receive the grace to build an unlimited ministry! All through the coming season, you will experience divine openings and divine surprises in all areas of your life and ministry!





CHAPTER 18




Enlarge by Data, Truths and Facts




		 			And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and NUMBERED THE PEOPLE, and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai. And all the people, even the people of war that were with him, went up, and drew nigh, and came before the city, and pitched on the north side of Ai: now there was a valley between them and Ai. And he took about FIVE THOUSAND MEN, and set them to lie in ambush between Beth-el and Ai, on the west side of the city.

			Joshua 8:10-12

		 			The Joshua generation are into data, information, statistics and facts instead of hearsay, rumours, gossip, stories, tale bearing, lies and deception.

			Joshua knew how many people he had because he took the time to number the people. He set aside five thousand men for a particular purpose. There was no ambiguity or uncertainty about Joshua’s decisions. He knew exactly how many soldiers he had at his disposal. He waged his war based on data, truths and facts.

			The spirit of data is the Spirit of truth. Truth is of God. Lies and deception is of the devil. Satan wants to deceive us with lies and deception. Satan wants us to base our ministries on a deception. Pastors who command crowds and money are often deceived about how far the gospel has reached. There is so much work to be done and very little has been accomplished

			The Laodiceans based their ministry on a deception. Every ministry that is based on deception is doomed.

			Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing; and knowest not that thou art wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked: I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.

			Revelation 3:17-18

			What were the deceptions of the Laodiceans? The Laodiceans thought they were rich but actually they were poor. They thought they were clothed but actually they were naked. They thought they could see but actually they were blind. This is the pitiful state of ministry that is based on a deception. Many ministries are based on self-deception. Most of us think that we are something that we are not. It is because many ministers believe that they have reached the world that they branch off into motivational speaking.

			Many ministers are doing business instead of giving themselves to the ministry. This is because they are deceived about the extent of work that has to be done.

			Why are so many preachers doing business instead of giving themselves wholly to the ministry? In our pitiful state, we must rather turn to the Lord and seek Him. We must seek the power of God and the anointing of the Holy Spirit.

			Data and statistics tell us truths that are not easy to see in other ways. How can you know you are enlarged if you did not know what size you were before? Many people are oblivious to the realities of the state of the church. Even though the church will be the biggest thing in the world by the end of the age, the church has actually been on a decline for some time. Probably, the greatest reason for this decline is the loss of the focus of the church on the Holy Spirit and evangelism.

			I have heard many people say that the church is increasing and growing, but I do not see the church growing everywhere. The data, statistics and facts on the ground do not show much growth.

			Many souls have been left to find salvation for themselves. They are left to struggle with drugs, murder, addictions, alcohol, cigarettes, atheism, prostitution, fornication, homosexuality, secularism, pornography, violence, hatred, wickedness and darkness. Many people are subjected to false religions because the knowledge of Christ does not come to them through us.

			In many nations, churches are reducing and emptying out! How many modern churches are conducting evangelistic crusades? How many modern churches are into door-to-door, person-to-person and soul-to-soul evangelism? How many churches are actually putting up new buildings? Most of the big cathedrals in the world are old and archaic buildings. Where are the new cathedrals?

			If you actually count the people in your church, you will realise how little you have done. It will spur you on to work harder. Whenever I analyse how much I have done, I realise how little has been accomplished. There are seven billion people in the world. If you have published two thousand books, what impact will it make? God is calling you to make an impact in the world. God is calling you to be a saviour of the world.

			Beginning from now, you will be spurred on by data, by truth and by realities! You are delivered from the deceptions of the Laodiceans. You and the members of your church will be listed among the army of the Lord that fights and never holds back. The spiritual giant in you is emerging to make an impact. I release you as a blessing to the world!

			The happenings in your ministry all through the coming season will compel people to desire to serve God. From henceforth, your ministry will know no bounds. Deception and lukewarmness is a thing of the past! I declare a turnaround has taken place in your life and ministry.

			When the Lord TURNED AGAIN the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream. Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The Lord hath done great things for them. The Lord hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad. TURN AGAIN our captivity, O Lord, as the streams in the south.

			Psalm 126:1-4





CHAPTER 19




Enlarge by Retreating




		 			And it came to pass, when the king of Ai saw it, that they hasted and rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle, he and all his people, at a time appointed, before the plain; but he wist not that there were liers in ambush against him behind the city. AND JOSHUA AND ALL ISRAEL MADE AS IF THEY WERE BEATEN BEFORE THEM, AND FLED BY THE WAY OF THE WILDERNESS. And all the people that were in Ai were called together to pursue after them: and they pursued after Joshua, and were drawn away from the city. And there was not a man left in Ai or Bethel, that went not out after Israel: and they left the city open, and pursued after Israel. And the Lord said unto Joshua, Stretch out the spear that is in thy hand toward Ai; for I will give it into thine hand. And Joshua stretched out the spear that he had in his hand toward the city.

			Joshua 8:14-18

		 			When Joshua retreated, many did not understand what he was doing! Beginning from now, people are going to be amazed at your moves, your strategies, your steps and your enlargement. They will say, “We never saw it on this fashion.”

			And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, WE NEVER SAW IT ON THIS FASHION.

			Mark 2:12

			Do not be worried if the steps you take look strange to people. God did not call you to conform to this world. God did not call you to be like everyone else. God called you to follow the Holy Spirit and to do what He tells you. Remember what they said about Jesus. They said, “We have seen strange things today.” All through the season of enlargement of your life, people will discuss you and use these very words that were spoken about Jesus.

			And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, WE HAVE SEEN STRANGE THINGS TO DAY.

			Luke 5:26

			There is a time to retreat so that you do not become offensive to the Lord. Too much human effort is offensive to the Lord. The priests were not allowed to wear things that made them sweat. Man was cursed to eat through the sweat of his face. Sweat, therefore, represents the punishment of God. Sweat represents things done by human effort and human strength. Human strength and human effort always speak of this original curse. Notice how the priests were not allowed to gird themselves with anything that caused sweat. The sweat would remind God of the curse. This is where the concept of retreating comes in.

			Retreating takes away the human effort! Retreating allows the power of God to work without you.

			But the priests the Levites, the sons of Zadok, that kept the charge of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from me, they shall come near to me to minister unto me, and they shall stand before me to offer unto me the fat and the blood, saith the Lord God: They shall enter into my sanctuary, and they shall come near to my table, to minister unto me, and they shall keep my charge.

			And it shall come to pass, that when they enter in at the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments; and no wool shall come upon them, whiles they minister in the gates of the inner court, and within. They shall have linen bonnets upon their heads, and shall have linen breeches upon their loins; THEY SHALL NOT GIRD THEMSELVES WITH ANY THING THAT CAUSETH SWEAT.

			Ezekiel 44:15-18

			There comes a time when retreating is what you need to do. Retreating is necessary because there is a need to rest from attacking, from fighting and from toiling. Retreating gives you an opportunity to think and clear your mind so you can fight better. People who are always on the move miss God. Busy people who are fighting and toiling often fail to retreat when they should.

			Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land which I give you, then shall the land keep a sabbath unto the Lord. Six years thou shalt sow thy field, and six years thou shalt prune thy vineyard, and gather in the fruit thereof; But IN THE SEVENTH YEAR SHALL BE A SABBATH OF REST UNTO THE LAND, a sabbath for the LORD: thou shalt neither sow thy field, nor prune thy vineyard.

			Leviticus 25:2-4

			Retreating and resting are necessary for fruitfulness. Joshua and his team retreated from the city of Ai and ran away before the armies of the enemy. When they turned around to face the enemy who was pursuing them, they had a greater punch. They crushed the enemy with greater strength.

			It has been shown scientifically that when land is allowed to rest for one year, the yield for the next six years is more than if the land had been used for seven years continuously.

			Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD. If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them; Then I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.

			Leviticus 26:2-4

			It is necessary for you to retreat and pray. It is important to retreat and wait on God. You must retreat and learn to be on your own. You must pray in the gardens. You must pray in your home. You must pray away from home. You must go to the mountains to wait on God. Retreat now and release the power of fruitfulness!

			Beginning from this year, everyone is going to notice your new level of fruitfulness!





CHAPTER 20




Enlarge by Divine Turnarounds




		 			AND JOSHUA BURNT AI, AND MADE IT AN HEAP FOR EVER, even a desolation unto this day. And the king of Ai he hanged on a tree until eventide: and as soon as the sun was down, Joshua commanded that they should take his carcase down from the tree, and cast it at the entering of the gate of the city, and raise thereon a great heap of stones, that remaineth unto this day. Then Joshua built an altar unto the Lord God of Israel in mount Ebal,

			Joshua 8:28-30

		 			Joshua was once defeated by Ai but God turned things around in his favour. Joshua’s defeat of the king of Ai was the beginning of divine turnarounds for Joshua. I predict that the beginning of divine turnarounds for your ministry has begun.

			Every resistance to your ministry is crushed by the power of God! Beginning from now and all through the coming years, you will experience divine turnarounds that will catapult you into an enlarged ministry. Your church is turning around and is being listed as one of the mega churches in the nation. Instead of being unknown, inconspicuous and irrelevant, you will be listed among the men that command attention in your country.

			Today, I declare that every resistance to your rising comes under a curse! Every agent of the devil and every personality who conspires against your calling comes under the judgment of heaven this year. Spiritual carpenters are released in this moment against the opposing forces in your life.

			And the LORD shewed me FOUR CARPENTERS. Then said I, What come these to do? And he spake, saying, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, so that no man did lift up his head: BUT THESE ARE COME TO FRAY THEM, to cast out the horns of the Gentiles, which lifted up their horn over the land of Judah to scatter it.

			Zechariah 1:20-21

			Joshua wiped out the enemy and hanged the king of Ai on a tree until evening. After that, he cast the body of the king onto the gate of the city and threw a heap of stones on it. It is important to wipe out your enemy in such a way that he is forgotten.

			You must defeat your enemy in such a way that he believes from the bottom of his heart that he has been defeated. You are surrounded by enemies, whether you believe it or not! But you are not alone! The greater One is in you! The power of God is all around you! You will experience a divine turnaround!

			It is important that you do not deal with your enemy in an ambiguous or indecisive manner. The devil and his agents are bent on closing every door against you. The king of Ai was bent on closing the gates of the city of Ai to Joshua and his armies. Every closed door in your life opens today in the name of Jesus!

			You must be aware that if the king of Ai had won the war, he would have tortured Joshua and thrown his dead body to the wild animals. The king of Ai represents the demonic crises in your life. The king of Ai represents the demonic challenges to your authority. When you deal with the enemy, do not make the mistake of leaving him half alive. Wipe him out in such a way that he will know that he is well and truly eliminated, separated and silenced. Notice how God dealt with the devil. The angel of the Lord bound the devil! The angel of the Lord cast the devil into a pit! The angel of the Lord removed the floor of the pit, giving the devil a bottomless foundation with nothing to stand on. The angel of the Lord shut up the devil. You must learn to silence and to shut up your enemies! The angel of the Lord set a seal and marked the devil. The devil is forever marked as the evil one. You must mark your enemies and fight them till they are defeated. Many enemies are indirect and ambiguous. Enemies do not like to be known as enemies. That is why it is important to mark the enemy in the way that the devil was marked.

			And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and BOUND him a thousand years, And cast him into the BOTTOMLESS PIT, and SHUT HIM UP, and SET A SEAL upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.

			Revelation 20:2-3

			God is knocking out every crisis in your life, beginning from now! God is lowering every mountain of resistance that stands in your way. God is silencing every threatening speech that is lifted up against your life!

			The wicked kings and princes of the dark world are destroyed by the anointing of the Holy Spirit. The wickedness of the king of Ai has laid an ambush for your life. Something wants to destroy you and cut short your destiny and ministry. But today, the Lord is giving you enlargement through a supernatural turnaround in your ministry.

			When the LORD TURNED AGAIN THE CAPTIVITY of Zion, we were like them that dream. Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The LORD hath done great things for them. The LORD hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad. TURN AGAIN OUR CAPTIVITY, O LORD, as the streams in the south.

			Psalm 126:1-4

			A supernatural turnaround has taken place in your life. This supernatural turning is the doing of the Lord.

			Every attempt by the king of Ai to cut short your life and ministry is crushed today in the name of Jesus!

			Whatever the enemy has planted in front of you will not succeed in stopping you. I prophesy that God will make your mouth to be filled with laughter!

			The happenings in your life all through the coming year will be a testimony of the power of God on your life.

			Just as God enlarged Joshua by turning around the defeat of Ai, God is turning your life around. The initial defeat by Ai was not able to eliminate Joshua and his team. This will be your story too! Every initial defeat you have experienced will turn around to the glory of God! May you continue to experience divine turnarounds all through your ministry!





CHAPTER 21




Enlarge Your Sacrifices




		 			And Joshua burnt Ai, and made it an heap for ever, even a desolation unto this day. And the king of Ai he hanged on a tree until eventide: and as soon as the sun was down, Joshua commanded that they should take his carcase down from the tree, and cast it at the entering of the gate of the city, and raise thereon a great heap of stones, that remaineth unto this day. THEN JOSHUA BUILT AN ALTAR UNTO THE LORD GOD OF ISRAEL IN MOUNT EBAL,

			Joshua 8:28-30

		 			God honours those who sacrifice to Him. Beginning from now, strange doors of favour will be opening onto you because of the sweet sacrifices you are making to the Lord. You will enter into new dimensions because of your sacrifices. All through the next season of your life, you will experience goodness, mercies and loads of blessings because of your great sacrifices for the Lord.

			Your sacrifices to God are important in determining how far you will go. There is no one who enlarges his life and ministry without enlarging his sacrifice! Modern Christians want to get away with not paying the price. You will surely pay the price if you want to serve God. You will become a surprise to yourself and to your world only if you enlarge your sacrifice (1 Samuel 10:11-12).

			What great sacrifices have you made for God? Joshua is known for fighting wars and taking territories. Is it not amazing that he was also a man of sacrifice? A man who built an altar onto the Lord! Go into the lives of all those who have been used greatly by the Lord. You will see the sacrifices they made for the Lord. Sacrifices are abundant in the lives of Bible characters and they are also evident in the lives of modern Christians who have made great strides for the Lord. You too will make great strides for the Lord! It will be said of you, “We have seen strange things today.”

			And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, WE HAVE SEEN STRANGE THINGS TO DAY.

			Luke 5:26

			Sacrifice is the door-opening key. Sacrifice changes your size in the spirit. Everyone who made sacrifices to God experienced a change in size, proportion and magnitude of ministry. God is the Creator of heaven and of earth. He is everything. We are nothing. If you do not turn your attention to Him and honour Him for who He is, you must not expect to be honoured. Check the Bible out and you will see that everyone who honours God is honoured in return. God ignores the people who ignore Him!

			Do you want God to ignore you? Do you want God to honour you? Will you join the long list of those who choose to honour God in their lives, or will you be among those who do not honour God with a sacrifice?

			Wherefore the Lord God of Israel saith, I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever: but now the Lord saith, Be it far from me; for THEM THAT HONOUR ME I WILL HONOUR, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.

			1 Samuel 2:30

			Those Who Sacrifice

			1.	Abel sacrificed to the Lord and he was accepted before God for all eternity.

			And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering:

			Genesis 4:4

			2.	Noah made a sacrifice to the Lord and he became one of the heroes of faith.

			And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man’s sake; for the imagination of man’s heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

			Genesis 8:20-21

			3.	Abraham repeatedly built altars and made large sacrifices to the Lord. Abraham became the father of faith for the whole world because he was enlarged in the area of sacrifice.

			And the Lord appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the Lord, who appeared unto him. And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto the Lord, and called upon the name of the Lord.

			Genesis 12:7-8

			Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the Lord.

			Genesis 13:18

			And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not. And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them away.

			And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him. And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years; And also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.

			Genesis 15:10-14

			4.	Moses made many sacrifices onto the Lord. Moses enlarged the concept of sacrifice. He demanded sacrifices from Pharaoh so that he could offer them to the Lord. He made sacrifices a law.

			And Moses said, Thou must give us also sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice unto the Lord our God.

			Exodus 10:25

			And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it Jehovahnissi: For he said, because the Lord hath sworn that the Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.

			Exodus 17:15-16

			5.	Isaac made many sacrifices to the Lord. Isaac was multiplied and blessed because of his great sacrifices to the Lord.

			And he went up from thence to Beersheba. And the Lord appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham’s sake. And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the Lord, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac’s servants digged a well.

			Genesis 26:23-25

			6.	Jacob enlarged in his sacrifices to the Lord. Through his large sacrifices, he became the father of a great nation.

			And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent before the city. And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem’s father, for an hundred pieces of money. AND HE ERECTED THERE AN ALTAR, AND CALLED IT ELELOHE-ISRAEL.

			Genesis 33:18-20

			And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and MAKE THERE AN ALTAR UNTO GOD, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.

			Genesis 35:1

			So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people that were with him. And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother.

			Genesis 35:6-7

			7.	Samuel made sacrifices to the Lord. At the first mention of Samuel, we see him organising a sacrifice in the city. God honoured Samuel as one of the greatest prophets ever.

			And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a burnt offering wholly unto the Lord: and Samuel cried unto the Lord for Israel; and the Lord heard him.

			1 Samuel 7:9

			And as they went up the hill to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, is the seer here? And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now, for he came to day to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place: As soon as ye be come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people will not eat until he come, because he doth bless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that be bidden. Now therefore get you up; for about this time ye shall find him. And they went up into the city: and when they were come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, for to go up to the high place.

			1 Samuel 9:11-14

			8.	David made many sacrifices to the Lord. He loved God. He honoured God. God honoured him too.

			And they brought in the ark of the LORD, and set it in his place, in the midst of the tabernacle that David had pitched for it: and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.

			2 Samuel 6:17

			9.	Solomon made great sacrifices to the Lord and God honoured him greatly.

			And Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered unto the LORD, two and twenty thousand oxen, and an hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of the LORD.

			1 Kings 8:63

			10.	Adam did not sacrifice to the Lord. Adam was not prepared to make the sacrifice of abstaining from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. He was thrown out of the garden.

			11.	Cain did not make a good enough sacrifice to the Lord and he was rejected for all eternity.

			And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD…. But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

			Genesis 4:3, 5

			12.	Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech are not known to have made any sacrifices to God. They are therefore mentioned only briefly in the Bible.

			13.	The three sons of Noah, Shem, Ham and Japheth, are not known to have made any sacrifices to God. They were not enlarged in their sacrifices to God. They were only mentioned briefly in the Bible.

			14.	The descendants of Ham; Cush, Mizraim, Phut and Canaan did not build any altars or make any large sacrifices to God. They are just mentioned briefly.

			15.	The descendants of Japheth; Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech and Tiras, did not build any altar or make any great sacrifices to Almighty God. We therefore know very little about them.

			16.	The descendants of Shem; Elem, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud and Aram are also not known to have made any special sacrifice to God. They are just mentioned briefly.

			17.	Esau did not make any sacrifice to the Lord. He and his descendants are briefly mentioned in the Bible. God does not honour those who do not honour Him.





CHAPTER 22




Enlarge Suddenly




		 			JOSHUA THEREFORE CAME UNTO THEM SUDDENLY, and went up from Gilgal all night. And the Lord discomfited them before Israel, and slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them along the way that goeth up to Bethhoron, and smote them to Azekah, and unto Makkedah.

			Joshua 10:9-10

		 			Expansion and enlargement take place when you act suddenly and with decisive accuracy. The Joshua generation fight suddenly and without warning. You will overcome the enemy when you learn to attack unexpectedly.

			There are many things that will not be done unless they are done suddenly. Many enemies cannot be overcome unless they are overcome suddenly. When an enemy knows that you are planning to destroy him, he prepares himself and therefore becomes ten times stronger. Would you want to fight an enemy who is ten times stronger or ten times weaker?

			The greatest evil that can happen to you in ministry is disloyalty. Disloyalty is the undoing and the dismantling of what you are building by the people within your camp. Satan has always wanted to work from within because it is easier for him to work from within. Enemies within are more difficult to recognize. It is more difficult to fight an enemy that you cannot recognize. The lines are blurred when the enemy is near you.

			Enlargement will come when you overcome enemies who destroy your growth. Disloyal people are those who take away from what you are building. Disloyalty is overcome by sudden and unexpected moves. All treacherous people deserve to have surprise attacks which they have no idea about.

			You must learn to make sudden moves so that you can overcome your disloyal enemies. You will overcome disloyal people if you learn to make sudden moves.

			When you are fighting disloyal people, they often think they can outsmart you. Disloyal people are always scheming, planning and murmuring whilst they are with you. They do not love you but they constantly pretend that they love and admire you. You can overcome treacherous and disloyal people with sudden lightning strikes.

			How can you make successful, bold and sudden lightning strikes against your enemy? The key to sudden lightning strikes against your enemy is patient planning. Your plans must be well thought through. You have to analyse the steps you need to take to unravel your enemy.

			Analyse how you are connected to your enemy!

			Analyse why your enemy has any power in your life!

			Analyse the different interactions you have with disloyal elements!

			After you have done your analysis, begin to weaken your enemy by dislodging him from your life in stages. Your final strike to absolutely remove the enemy must be sudden, swift and unexpected.

			Sometimes people want to enlarge by striking out at the enemy suddenly without thinking through what they are doing. You must think through everything you are planning to do.

			Moves that are not well thought through will only bring more confusion. You must think through and plan all your steps carefully. When you move against your enemy, he must have no answer. It is important to make your enemy accept in his heart that he has been defeated. God has given you the supernatural ability and wisdom to move suddenly against powerful, wicked, treacherous enemies that have surrounded you. The time for your sudden strikes has come! The time to shake off disloyalty that is planted around you will come through careful planning.





CHAPTER 23




Enlarge With All Night Work




		 			So Joshua ascended from Gilgal, he, and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valour. And the LORD said unto Joshua, Fear them not: for I have delivered them into thine hand; there shall not a man of them stand before thee. Joshua therefore came unto them suddenly, and WENT UP FROM GILGAL ALL NIGHT. And the LORD discomfited them before Israel, and slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them along the way that goeth up to Bethhoron, and smote them to Azekah, and unto Makkedah.

			Joshua 10:7-10

		 			All through this season of your life, you will be enlarging your coast. You will see things you have never dreamed of. You are receiving the wisdom of God for enlargement in your ministry.

			Watch out for those who cannot work through the night. Joshua travelled all night in order to defeat the enemy. By the time he was fighting and achieving a great slaughter of the enemy, he had been awake all night, moving at top speed.

			Many jobs need long hours of work to accomplish anything. This is where all night work comes in. Sometimes the day is not enough and you need all night work. Sometimes, you need to labour all through the night in order to enlarge, expand and break through.

			The Joshua generation will fight hard to enlarge by doing all night work. If you have a good job, you will one day find yourself working all night. If you want to experience enlargement, you must work hard and long. The fact that you are a Christian does not exempt you from the curse on Adam. That curse is clear: “In the sweat of thy face will thou eat bread” (Genesis 3:19). You will need to sweat in order to eat. Sweating means you have been working very hard.

			You must get used to the idea of long hard work. You must rise out of mediocrity, laziness and being unproductive. I once met someone who worked for the government in a certain country. He said to me, “We employ five hundred people in our government department.”

			He continued, “In actual fact, we do not need more than fifteen people to work there.”

			I was amazed as he described how the government insists on him employing five hundred people to do the work of fifteen people. When you work in such an organisation, you will get used to doing very little work. You will also get used to not being paid well. You will get used to lazing around and being unproductive. Those who work in such places often become petty thieves or even all out criminals.

			 Do not be happy when you do not have much work to do. Do not congratulate yourself when you are able to sleep at work. Do not be excited because you have been given a job that involves sleeping in a chair for half a day. There are many things to do. Indeed, there is so much to do that you may be required to work all night. When you are on an enlargement drive, you will begin to work longer and longer hours until you even work all night.

			Seven Activities that Need All Night Work

			1.	All night prayer. There are times you need to pray all night. You must learn how to pray with a group all night. You must learn how to pray all night on your own. There is an art to praying all night on your own. The fact that you cannot pray all night on your own reveals something about your lack of discipline.

			2.	All night reading with prayer. There are times you must read all night whilst you pray.

			3.	All night discussions and strategizing meetings. There are times you need to meet all night as you strategize to do the work of God.

			4.	All night counselling. There are times you need to counsel people all through the night. I once counselled a couple all night. At the end of my counselling, there was still no change in the marital crisis.

			5.	All night computer work. There are times you need to work on your computer all through the night. In order to write books, I have spent many nights at work. There are many times I started work on one day and ended the next day.

			6.	All night construction. Most efficient construction takes place in the day as well as in the night. To save money and to work better, many construction companies work in the night as well. Indeed, if you were searching for flood lights, you would find that flood lights are mostly used for construction.

			7.	All night rehearsals. I have been involved in music rehearsals that last all night. Indeed, many times it has taken a whole night to learn a few songs. Good singers practice for long hours and rehearse through the night.





CHAPTER 24




Enlarge by Leaving Nothing Undone




		 			As the Lord commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses command Joshua, and so did Joshua; HE LEFT NOTHING UNDONE of all that the Lord commanded Moses.

			Joshua 11:15

		 			Enlargement, expansion and growth are possible if you leave nothing undone. The Joshua generation will leave nothing undone of all that the Lord has commanded and said. Most people are not able to experience enlargement because they leave many things undone. Notice how Joshua always fulfilled his ministry by completing his assignments.

			So Joshua smote all the country of the hills, and of the south, and of the vale, and of the springs, and all their kings: HE LEFT NONE REMAINING, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the Lord God of Israel commanded.

			Joshua 10:40

			Most people do not complete their ministry. Most ministers leave many things undone. If you want to experience enlargement from God, you must learn to leave nothing undone.

			When you are given medicine, it is important that you take the whole course in the way it is prescribed. If you leave something undone, do not be surprised if you do not get well.

			All through my ministry I have tried to leave nothing undone. I have tried to be spiritual and I have also tried to be wise in the natural. I have tried to do pastoral work and I have also tried to do evangelistic work. I have tried to do apostolic work and I have also tried to do works of compassion. I have tried to preach the pure gospel and speak about pure salvation and I have also tried to minister the healing power of God. I have tried to leave nothing undone. Leaving nothing undone is the master key to enlargement!

			I have tried to build a congregation and I have also tried to build the physical buildings to house the congregations. I have tried to write books and I have also tried to write songs. I have tried to write songs and I have also tried to produce them. I have tried to produce and train choirs and I have also tried to raise up soloists.

			I have tried to minister the healing power of God and I have also tried to cast out devils. Philip went down to Samaria and preached Christ. Many people gave heed to the things that he said, both seeing and hearing the miracles that he did (Acts 8:5-6). I am trying as hard as I can to experience all that Philip experienced. I do not want to leave anything undone.

			I have tried to teach the word of God and I have also tried to preach. I have tried to preach about doing the work of the ministry but I have also tried to preach about tithing. I have tried to teach about leadership but I have also tried to teach about the anointing.

			I have tried to stay at home but I have also tried to travel and preach the word of God. I have tried to be a pastor of one congregation but I have also tried to pastor other churches. I have attempted to conduct crusades and I have also attempted to have a ministry in the media. I have attempted to have a television ministry and I have also tried to have a radio ministry. I have tried to set up an orphanage but I have also tried to set up a hospital. I have attempted to establish churches but I have also tried to set up schools.

			What has God called you to do? What is missing in your ministry? What have you left undone?

			Make sure you leave nothing undone! By leaving nothing undone you will experience enlargement. Joshua and his team ministered the power of God leaving nothing undone.





CHAPTER 25




Enlarge With Faithful Friends




		 			Now it came to pass, when Adonizedek king of Jerusalem had heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them; That they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty. Wherefore Adonizedek king of Jerusalem sent unto Hoham king of Hebron, and unto Piram king of Jarmuth, and unto Japhia king of Lachish, and unto Debir king of Eglon, saying, Come up unto me, and help me, that we may smite Gibeon: for it hath made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.

			Therefore the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon, gathered themselves together, and went up, they and all their hosts, and encamped before Gibeon, and made war against it. And the men of Gibeon sent unto Joshua to the camp to Gilgal, saying, SLACK NOT THY HAND FROM THY SERVANTS; COME UP TO US QUICKLY, AND SAVE US, AND HELP US: FOR ALL THE KINGS OF THE AMORITES THAT DWELL IN THE MOUNTAINS ARE GATHERED TOGETHER AGAINST US. So Joshua ascended from Gilgal, he, and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valour.

			Joshua 10:1-7

		 			Joshua risked his life for his servants. Joshua was faithful to those who were part of his team. Most people would not fight and risk their lives for anyone other than themselves.

			Enlargement is possible when you are faithful to your friends, servants, colleagues and associates. You must remember your alliances, your associates and your aides. Enlargement is only possible because of the loyal and faithful support you get from people you have known.

			When Joshua received a call for help from his servants, he risked his life and the life of his men. Loyalty and faithfulness are virtues that are seen in times of trouble. What you do for someone when he is in trouble reveals your level of faithfulness. “A faithful man who can find?” (Proverbs 20:6). A faithful man is a good man. In other words, “A good man who can find?” Be faithful to your friends and colleagues! One day, they will also fight for you and not abandon you.

			A rich man has many friends. A rich man is usually in a state of success, achievement and great accomplishment. This state of success, achievement and accomplishment attracts many fake friends and supporters. Success has many friends! Whenever there is a crisis, the fake friends will be exposed.

			The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich hath many friends.

			Proverbs 14:20

			It is in the time of trouble that you see the really loyal and faithful friends. It is in time of trouble that you need to call on people to help you. When people let you down in time of trouble, they reveal how disloyal they are.

			Once, I fell into a crisis and rushed to a man I thought was a friend. I thought that our relationship was so strong and deep that he would stand up for me and defend me. Instead of speaking up for me, he told someone that he did not want to get himself involved in my crisis. The next time I saw him, he smiled at me in his usual charming way and came to hug me, asking me about how things were going. I wondered in amazement at this “friend”. I looked at this gentleman and understood that his friendship, his charming words, his hugs, his inquiries about my health and my family meant nothing at all. It was not a relationship worth having.

			Look around you and choose people based on those who have stood with you in time of trouble. Choose the people who spoke up for you when there was a problem. Watch what people say when there is a crisis! Watch what people do not say when there is a crisis!

			There was no ambiguity or indecisiveness about Joshua’s actions. Joshua’s actions were clear. He would rise up and fight for his friends. He would risk his life for those he called his servants.

			Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.

			Proverbs 25:19

			At another time, I experienced a crisis and I was expecting my friend and colleague to rise up and defend me. I had great expectations that my friend would stand up and fight for me because of our past relationship. I hoped and hoped! I waited and waited! I prayed and cried! I tried and tried to persuade him! Then I listened and listened! I watched and watched! But there was no word! There was no intervention! And there was no help from this friend! Apparently, this friend did not want to speak out on my behalf. Perhaps, he sided with the people that were persecuting me. Perhaps, he understood them more than he understood me. Perhaps, he wished that they would continue to persecute me to the logical conclusion.

			I experienced what it meant to have confidence in an unfaithful man in my time of trouble. I experienced a broken tooth and a foot out of joint! When you experience a broken tooth or a foot out of joint, you are affected badly. Many people break their relationships and friendships after these experiences.

			You can lose the most important friendship or relationship in your life when you are not faithful in time of trouble. If you lose the most important relationships and friendships of your life through unfaithfulness, you have really lost something big. I have relationships that I have been forced to change because a crisis revealed that my friends were not faithful to me in my time of trouble. Keep watching and waiting! You will soon have a chance to filter your friendships and leave out the fake ones!

			Enlargement is possible by maintaining amazing friendships and relationships through the years. Be a faithful man! God will give you amazing relationships that will be stepping-stones to your enlargement and advancement in ministry.

			From now on, you will experience enlargement in your ministry. Your path will be shining more and more until Jesus returns.





CHAPTER 26




Enlargement Is by The Guidance of the Spirit




		 			Now Jericho was straitly shut up because of the children of Israel: none went out, and none came in. And the Lord said unto Joshua, See, I have given into thine hand Jericho, and the king thereof, and the mighty men of valour. And ye shall compass the city, all ye men of war, and go round about the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days.

			And seven priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams’ horns: and the seventh day ye shall compass the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets. AND IT SHALL COME TO PASS, THAT WHEN THEY MAKE A LONG BLAST WITH THE RAM’S HORN, AND WHEN YE HEAR THE SOUND OF THE TRUMPET, ALL THE PEOPLE SHALL SHOUT WITH A GREAT SHOUT; AND THE WALL OF THE CITY SHALL FALL DOWN FLAT, AND THE PEOPLE SHALL ASCEND UP EVERY MAN STRAIGHT BEFORE HIM.

			And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, and said unto them, take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams’ horns before the ark of the LORD. And he said unto the people, pass on, and compass the city, and let him that is armed pass on before the ark of the Lord.

			Joshua 6:1-7

		 			Expansion, enlargement, growth and improvement are possible when you receive supernatural guidance from the Lord. Beginning from today, your ministry will experience supernatural enlargement as you follow supernatural guidance. From now onwards you will lose confidence in human ideas and place your trust in God’s guidance. Every day will be a day of supernatural increase and unusual expansion. Your level is changing from glory to glory through the secrets in this book.

			Joshua could never have defeated Jericho if he had used natural ideas. Jericho was a powerful city, completely surrounded by walls. The nation of Israel stood no chance against this ancient citadel. God spoke a word to Joshua and he believed it. “Take your choir, your singers and your musicians and march around the city for seven days. Then begin to shout and the walls will fall down.” Joshua did exactly that and experienced his very first taste of divine enlargement and expansion.

			Do you want to experience enlargement? Do you want to expand the way Joshua and Caleb expanded into The Promised Land? Beginning from today, you will begin to enlarge into the will of God!

			The Joshua generation is the generation that enlarges by supernatural guidance. We are nothing and we know nothing! What hope does a cow have, if it is walking by itself from Accra to Abidjan? Will it get there? Will it not be killed eaten long before it finishes that journey of five hundred kilometres? Indeed, we are the sheep of His hand. We have no hope of getting to our destination unless we are guided by the mighty Holy Spirit.

			Divine guidance is the master key to enlargement. Joshua’s first step to enlargement was to follow divine and unusual guidance to possess Jericho. You must do what the Holy Spirit says. You must not attempt to trust your own ideas. You must not attempt to build God’s house with the world’s methods.

			For more than thirty years the Holy Spirit has constantly given me unusual instructions. Each of these instructions has led to a great expansion and enlargement of the ministry. In 1991 the Holy Spirit led me to “give myself wholly” to ministry. I was like Joshua, standing before Jericho. None went in and none came out! There was simply no advancement or improvement in my life and ministry. But the Holy Spirit said to me, “Give thyself wholly to this classroom church filled with students and little children.”

			There did not seem to be much hope in this little group of students. But as I gave myself wholly to the ministry, the little group of students grew into a mega church. Without supernatural guidance you will never become what God intends for you to become.

			When the Holy Spirit spoke to me to write a book, I never imagined what would become of my book ministry. Most Christian authors are Americans. Non-Americans do not stand much of a chance in worldwide Christian publishing. However, following God has given me the greatest opportunity to bear fruits.

			I expanded into evangelism when the Holy Spirit led me to begin crusades. You can hear from God better when you hear how he led others. That is why it is important to hear the testimonies and stories of other ministers and how they have been led by the Holy Spirit. I felt the Holy Spirit leading me to go outside our church. He said to me, “Your ministry must not only remain within your church. Your ministry must affect many other churches outside your denomination.” By following this guidance, I began to have conferences with pastors.

			I once had a supernatural vision. I saw somebody encouraging me to have crusades and to pray for the sick. The Holy Spirit was directing me and leading me to hold supernatural Healing Jesus campaigns all over Africa.

			Follow the Holy Spirit and you will come to a place of great expansion in the ministry.





CHAPTER 27




Enlarge Even though Your Friends Are Targeted




		 			COME UP UNTO ME, AND HELP ME, THAT WE MAY SMITE GIBEON: FOR IT HATH MADE PEACE WITH JOSHUA and with the children of Israel. Therefore the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon, gathered themselves together, and went up, they and all their hosts, and encamped before Gibeon, and made war against it.

			Joshua 10:4-5

		 			Gibeon was the target of demonic attacks. The five kings of the Amorites targeted Gibeon just because he had made peace with Joshua. Read it for yourself. It is not only you, the minister, who is the focus of satanic attack. Your assistants, your friends, your close workers, your associates, your secretaries, your helpers are the focus and target of many attacks.

			You, your friends and associates are the targets of many demonic discussions and meetings. The Joshua generation are targeted by many evil powers. Joshua’s friends and associates were targeted because they were seen as the source of trouble.

			In the ministry, your associates, your friends and your supporters are key targets for the enemy. This is why your friends, associates and helpers must also be spiritual and prayerful. Satan is able to spot the weak link in the chain. He looks ravenously with a watering mouth at your assistants, friends, secretaries, associates and helpers, desiring to have them for lunch.

			Throughout the course of your ministry, you will find that many of your closest followers and friends are attacked by satan. Your wife will be attacked by evil spirits because she is your wife. This is why many ministers have bad marriages. Most ministers marry the sweetest, nicest and gentlest of church members. Unfortunately, these gentle, sweet and nice sisters metamorphose into proud, negative and argumentative creatures. Why is this? These women are constantly under attack from evil spirits. It is so sad to see ministers’ wives metamorphose right before your very eyes into the exact opposite of what they were before they married.

			Your associates will be attacked by evil spirits because they are your associates. Your close confidants will be attacked because they are your confidants. Many associates are attacked with the spirit of Absalom. Many associates are attacked by the spirit of envy, jealousy, lust and pride. Many associates are attacked, especially, with the spirit of Lucifer, which teaches them to separate themselves and rebel against authority.

			It is easy to tell who your enemies are by looking at people’s attitudes towards your close confidants, friends and associates. People who dislike your friends, associates and confidants are your enemies. The friend of your friend is your friend! The enemy of your friend is your enemy!

			In the world today, people are more indirect and oblique about their hostility towards you. You can see what people really think of you by how they behave towards your associates, friends and confidants. There are many people who I consider as enemies because they do not like my close workers. I know they will never declare war on me directly so I am not waiting for that to happen. They hate the people who work for me and that is all I need to know.

			You must know that your friends and lovers will be the focus of demonic attacks. People will dislike them. People will gossip about them. Satan will try to kill them. Satan will try to silence them. Satan will try to neutralize them.

			Gibeon would have enjoyed a peaceful existence if he were not associated with Joshua. Through the years, I have seen many close associates around me fall to demonic attacks. Five demonic kings came against Gibeon. Perhaps there are five demonic powers that are targeting you and your close assistants. Rise up and encourage everyone around you to be spiritual and prayerful.

			If they do not take heed to themselves, they will fall to demonic powers. If they are not spiritual and humble, they will be filled with the spirit of Lucifer. If they are not prayerful, they will deny you like Peter denied Christ. If they are not spiritual and humble, they will turn into Judases. If they are not careful, they will fall to lust. If they are not humble and spiritual, they will become adulterers. If they are not spiritual and humble, they will end up divorced. Satan seeks to engulf your pastors, your friends, your acquaintances and associates with satanic shame and slime.

			It is time to rise up and ready yourself for satanic attacks on your associates, spouses, assistants, friends, close workers and helpers. We are in a war! This is a war where they take no prisoners. You will either fall out or be left standing. Rise up today and be strong in the Lord. Satan wants to finish you and your friends but you will overcome. I see you winning the fight to preserve every friendship and association that is important for your ministry!





CHAPTER 28




Enlarge by the Supernatural




		 			And it came to pass, as they fled from before Israel, and were in the going down to Bethhoron, that the Lord cast down great stones from heaven upon them unto Azekah, and they died: they were more which died with hailstones than they whom the children of Israel slew with the sword. Then spake Joshua to the Lord in the day when the Lord delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel, AND HE SAID IN THE SIGHT OF ISRAEL, SUN, STAND THOU STILL UPON GIBEON; AND THOU, MOON, IN THE VALLEY OF AJALON. AND THE SUN STOOD STILL, AND THE MOON STAYED, until the people had avenged themselves upon their enemies. Is not this written in the book of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not to go down about a whole day.

			Joshua 10:11-13

		 			Expansion is a supernatural occurrence. A short man becomes a tall man and no one knows why! You must believe in the supernatural. God is a God who does supernatural wonders. God is fearful! God is glorious! God is holy! God is special! God is fearful! God must be praised! God does wonders! The God you serve is supernatural!

			Who is like unto thee, O LORD, among the gods? who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?

			Exodus 15:11

			The Joshua generation are supernatural through and through. Every natural effort that the Joshua generation made to expand was connected to the supernatural. Fighting wars, was accompanied by supernatural support from God. At one point the sun and the moon were made to stand still so that Joshua could continue fighting and destroying the enemy. Being born again puts you in the realm of the supernatural. Every born-again Christian is supernatural because he is born of the Spirit. Everyone born of the Spirit is supernatural and mysterious.

			The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.

			John 3:8

			If your ministry consists of only giving Bible lessons every Sunday then you are not in the real ministry. Ministry is more than giving Bible teachings on Sunday. Ministry is a supernatural thing. Ministry is a supernatural experience. You will be learning new things every day. There is a big difference between being a school teacher and being a supernatural minister of God. Joshua was an army commander but he was also a supernatural minister of God. There were supernatural things that accompanied his ministry.

			What supernatural signs and wonders accompany your ministry? Today, people simply look at finances in order to tell whether God is with them or not. If they have more money, they think that God is still with them. Perhaps you should look for supernatural signs and wonders to be sure that God is still with you. Notice how Jesus was approved by God.

			Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, A MAN APPROVED OF GOD AMONG YOU BY MIRACLES AND WONDERS AND SIGNS, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know:

			Acts 2:22

			What supernatural things are happening in your ministry? You must have supernatural dreams! You must have supernatural words of knowledge. You must have divine revelations. You must experience the supernatural power of God fighting for you and striking down your enemies. God will supernaturally neutralize all those who have lifted up their horns against your life and ministry.

			There are three things that every minister must allow the supernatural power of God to do for you. If you want to experience enlargement as Joshua did, you must allow the supernatural to happen in your life and ministry.

			1.	You must allow God to supernaturally avenge you.

			Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.

			Romans 12:19

			All through life, you will have people treating you wrongly.

			Vengeance is mine; I will repay, says the Lord! God is into the repayment business. He will repay everyone who treats you badly. God pays people back for their wickedness. You must wait and see how God avenges you speedily. Jesus was sent into this world to experience injustice. As the Father sent Him into the world, you are also being sent into the world to experience injustice and wickedness. It will humble you and soften you. However, God will one day unleash His vengeance on those who mistreat you. The Jews who killed innocent Jesus Christ have never ceased to reap unending injustice, hatred, discrimination and loathing by the rest of the world.

			2.	You must allow God to supernaturally deal with those who touch the anointed.

			Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

			Psalm 105:15

			If you are God’s anointed, when people touch you and attack you, they will experience a boomerang and an explosion of power against them. The Lord has warned in His word, “Do not touch my anointed.” You must learn to trust that God will deal with those who mishandle you. You are the anointed of the Lord. When they strike at you, they are striking you through the anointing. Blasphemy against the Holy Ghost is a very dangerous thing to do. I have watched God strike at those who have struck at me. I have watched them fall and come down very low. I have seen with my own eyes the negative effects of touching the anointed of God.

			3.	You must allow God to supernaturally envelope your enemies with curses.

			But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command thee this day; that all these curses shall come upon thee, and overtake thee:

			Deuteronomy 28:15

			Curses are real things. I believe that curses and blessings are realities. They are perhaps the only explanations of the unfortunate occurrences in our world. A supernatural minister of God must believe in the power of blessings and curses. A man of God must believe in the supernatural power of spoken words. Moses had no way of protecting the nation of Israel from backsliding leaders. He used the power of blessings and curses to guide Israel through the centuries. Blessings and curses are supernatural statements spoken into the atmosphere. Blessings and curses come to pass mysteriously.

			A curse is an appeal to a supernatural power to intervene in a situation. A man of God must appeal to the supernatural. I have appealed to the supernatural many times. I have appealed and implored the supernatural power of blessings and curses on many occasions. A time will come when you will have nothing but the supernatural hand of God to look up to.





CHAPTER 29




Enlarge by Overcoming Distraction




		 			And the Lord discomfited them before Israel, and slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them along the way that goeth up to Bethhoron, and smote them to Azekah, and unto Makkedah …AND IT WAS TOLD JOSHUA, SAYING, THE FIVE KINGS ARE FOUND HID IN A CAVE AT MAKKEDAH. AND JOSHUA SAID, ROLL GREAT STONES UPON THE MOUTH OF THE CAVE, AND SET MEN BY IT FOR TO KEEP THEM: AND STAY YE NOT, BUT PURSUE AFTER YOUR ENEMIES, and smite the hindmost of them; suffer them not to enter into their cities: for the Lord your God hath delivered them into your hand. And it came to pass, when Joshua and the children of Israel had made an end of slaying them with a very great slaughter, till they were consumed, that the rest which remained of them entered into fenced cities. And all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace: none moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel. Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring out those five kings unto me out of the cave.

			Joshua 10:10, 17-22

			Do not be deceived by the opportunity to celebrate half-baked victories. Enlargement and expansion efforts are cancelled by unnecessary celebrations, jollity and frivolity. Pastors who are involved with many diverse activities cannot make their churches grow. Church growth is one of the most difficult achievements to attain to.

			Joshua maintained his aim of destroying the armies of the enemy. A lesser leader would have been distracted from his real goal. Many people celebrate when there is nothing really to celebrate. Joshua was not ready to celebrate anything when he had not accomplished his goals. As part of the campaign, five key kings were captured. These were King Adonizedek of Jerusalem King Hoham of Hebron, King Piram of Jarmuth, King Japhia of Lachish, and King Debir of Eglon. This victory would have distracted lesser people from their original aim or vision. But Joshua simply put the five kings into a cave and rolled a stone over the mouth of the cave. He kept the five kings in a cave until he had finished the real business of destroying the armies of the enemy. It was only after Joshua had eliminated the real enemies that he turned his attention to kings and other powerful men.

			What is distracting you from your real goal? There are people who spend a lot of time and money celebrating events. Indeed, there are many things to celebrate. There will always be anniversaries, birthdays, housewarming parties, engagements, weddings, christenings, funerals, wake-keepings, celebrations for winning elections, Easter, Christmas holidays, family reunions, promotions and even mortgages to celebrate.

			Most celebrations are distractions from the real job you have to do. Joshua and his team had a great opportunity to celebrate the capture of the five kings: King Adonizedek of Jerusalem, King Hoham of Hebron, King Piram of Jarmuth, King Japhia of Lachish, and King Debir of Eglon. There was much to celebrate and there was much to thank God for.

			The Joshua generation maintained their aim of destroying their enemies. Joshua and his powerful team were not distracted by pride-filled and boastful activities.

			Do not be deceived by the opportunity to celebrate half-baked victories. All through my ministry, I have rarely celebrated anything. I usually do not celebrate anniversaries of the church. There is nothing wrong if you do so. However, when I see the work that remains undone, I wonder what there is to celebrate.

			People spend lots of money and time to hire decorations, chairs, organise music, make T-shirts, make special clothes, get fireworks, buy flowers, special drinks, cakes, make souvenirs and create the most amazing and spectacular scenery for their special celebrations. Some brides are even made to walk through water as they come through the aisle. You would be amazed to find that some of these celebrants do not have a house to live in. Many people take loans just to make a big splash. Some of the people organising these celebrations end up quarrelling and even separating over their big event.

			What has God called you to do? Has He called you to pursue the enemy? Has He called you to build churches? Has He called you to preach the gospel? Has He called you to sing songs? Then concentrate on your work and on the divine opportunity God has given you. Do not turn aside from the blessed opportunity that lies before you. Work hard and work now! The time will come when the opportunity will be gone forever. I am writing this book in the midst of many challenges and difficulties. I am pressing on in spite of many things that seek to take up my time and energy. I am attempting great things, even though I have a thousand serious and threatening distractions that are calling for my attention.

			Be careful of confusion! Confusion occurs when many distractions happen at the same time. Confusion is a state of disorder where there is a lack of clearness and distinctness. When something happens on your left, on your right and behind you, you are left wondering which way to turn. Be careful of confusion because it is one of the basic satanic strategies to keep you from pursuing your God-given task.

			In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.

			Psalm 71:1

			You must always realise when you are under an attack of confusion. Whilst you are confused the enemy will slip out from under your hand. Whilst you are confused from your many distractions, your opportunity to serve God will silently slip away.

			Remember this master key for enlargement. Joshua did not turn aside from following his enemies because of the news of the capture of the five kings. If he had turned aside to celebrate the capture of the five kings, it would have allowed the enemy to escape. These enemies would have strengthened themselves and come back against him like a boomerang. Joshua would have had the difficulty of facing a revived, revengeful and bitter enemy. A wounded lion is still a lion!





CHAPTER 30




Enlargement by Judgment




		 			Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring out those five kings unto me out of the cave. And they did so, and brought forth those five kings unto him out of the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon. And it came to pass, when they brought out those kings unto Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said unto the captains of the men of war which went with him, COME NEAR, PUT YOUR FEET UPON THE NECKS OF THESE KINGS. And they came near, and put their feet upon the necks of them. And Joshua said unto them, Fear not, nor be dismayed, be strong and of good courage: for thus shall the Lord do to all your enemies against whom ye fight. AND AFTERWARD JOSHUA SMOTE THEM, AND SLEW THEM, AND HANGED THEM ON FIVE TREES: AND THEY WERE HANGING UPON THE TREES UNTIL THE EVENING. And it came to pass at the time of the going down of the sun, that Joshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, and cast them into the cave wherein they had been hid, and laid great stones in the cave’s mouth, which remain until this very day.

			Joshua 10:22-27

		 			Enlarge by declaring and implementing sound judgment. Do not be afraid of judgment. Without judgment there would be confusion, disorder, chaos and anarchy. You cannot expand in the midst of confusion, disorder, chaos and anarchy.

			In this story, Joshua executed the five kings who had teamed up against the children of Israel. In a show of power and victory, he pulled out the five kings from a cave and made them lie on the floor. He encouraged God’s people and said, “This is what is going to happen to all your enemies.” The Joshua generation understands the need for judgment. Without killing these kings, the people of God would never be established.

			The fact that people are low and defeated does not mean they are repentant! Many people act repentant and sorry because they have been caught but not because they have truly repented. Without appropriate judgment, evil is allowed to grow and even diversify. People begin to add sin to sin because judgment is not applied.

			Woe to the rebellious children, saith the LORD, that take counsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, THAT THEY MAY ADD SIN TO SIN:

			Isaiah 30:1

			Death is the judgment God gave to mankind for disobeying Him. God decided to terminate the lives of His creation because they had disobeyed Him. If you think about it, you will realise that death is necessary to end the evil on the earth. If certain people were allowed to live, the evil they practised would live on too. Imagine if Hitler, Stalin, Caligula and Nero were still alive. Imagine if many of the serial killers and murderers of our world were still alive and allowed to roam the streets after being in prison for many years. Imagine if the perpetrators of genocides were allowed to come right back to continue their evil deeds. Indeed, judgment (death) brings much evil to an end. God’s plan of judgment through death has truly helped to bring an end to evil. When we understand the plan of God, we may not be so sad when certain people die.

			Enlargement takes place through a combination of judgment and mercy. Every leader is going to juggle with mercy and judgment throughout his ministry. Should you pass judgment or should you show mercy. Should you dismiss someone or should you keep him? Should you overlook what has happened or should you pass judgment? Every leader will face this difficulty throughout his ministry.

			God is merciful and He forgives us, often putting us right back into the place of ministry. The difference between you and God is that God sees the heart but we cannot see people’s hearts. Has the person truly repented or is the person just pretending? Has the person truly repented or is the person just lying low, only to resurface as the worst possible “Judas”? These are things that are not easy to determine. It is important to be merciful, and good leaders must tend more towards mercy than towards judgment. Scripture is always encouraging us to be merciful. A man of God must have the mercy of God if he is an imitator of God.

			Why a Leader Must be Merciful

			1.	A leader must be merciful because mercy is better than judgment. Mercy triumphs over judgment. You will have more favour in your life if you show mercy whenever you can.

			Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart: So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man.

			Proverbs 3:3-4

			2.	A leader must be merciful because it is wise to be merciful. All leaders will learn that showing mercy is the wise thing to do.

			But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy.

			James 3:17

			However, true enlargement will only come through righteous judgment. Establishment will never come unless real judgment is allowed to happen to those who deserve it. Joshua executed judgment on the five kings who attacked the children of Israel. He placed his foot on their necks and called everyone to come and see them being executed. It may sound cruel but a certain establishment will not come unless there is real judgment.

			The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it.

			Proverbs 29:4

			When you do not pass judgment but rather forgive and overlook the sins of someone who has not repented, you make a mistake that can cost you a lot.

			I once had a vision in which there was a large pot of groundnut soup boiling on a stove. In the vision, I needed to urinate and I decided to do it into the boiling groundnut soup. As I urinated into the groundnut soup I wondered, “Is this not what we are going to eat?” I became alarmed when I realised that I was doing the wrong thing. I was pouring urine into the soup that we were all going to eat. Suddenly, I awoke out of my dream. The Lord said to me, “If you allow this unrepentant person to go back to his old position, you are pouring urine into the groundnut soup. You are putting an evil back into the ministry and it will poison and destroy other things. Do not put unrepentant people back into their old positions, lest they destroy the ministry.”

			Do not destroy your ministry by dealing benevolently with disloyalty. Being a Judas is the worst spiritual crime possible. Jesus said it would have been better that Judas were not born (Matthew 26:24).

			Many immoral people continue in immorality because they take sin lightly. The Bible says fornication should not be mentioned even once (Ephesians 5:3). Do not trivialise or minimize the risk that sin introduces to your life. Self-judgment is important.

			For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged.

			1 Corinthians 11:31

			If you do not judge yourself, you will find evil growing in your life. If you do not judge others properly the evil will grow. If you do not take proper decisions about your leaders, evil will multiply and the whole congregation will be affected. Do not forget, as the priest are, so are the people! Whatever is found among the pastors will soon spread into the congregation.

			‘AND WHAT THE PRIESTS DO, THE PEOPLE ALSO DO.’ So now I will punish both priests and people for their wicked deeds.

			Hosea 4:9 (NLT)

			Believe in the judgment of God and practice judgment like the Joshua generation so that the kingdom will be established in the land.





CHAPTER 31




Enlarge by Becoming an Authority Figure




		 			And Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before the Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho: he shall lay the foundation thereof in his firstborn, and in his youngest son shall he set up the gates of it. So the Lord was with Joshua; and his fame was noised throughout all the country.

			Joshua 6:26-27

			And Ahab made a grove; and Ahab did more to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him. In his days did Hiel the Bethelite build Jericho: he laid the foundation thereof in Abiram his firstborn, and set up the gates thereof in his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Joshua the son of Nun.

			1 Kings 16:33-34

		 			You will be enlarged as you become an authority figure. When a man of authority speaks a word, it is more likely to be fulfilled. Authority is derived from the things you suffer and the things you have survived. A soldier who has been through a real war and survived is different from a trained soldier who has never been to the battlefield. They may have the same rank in the army but a survivor and a sufferer is at a much higher level of authority.

			Authority is also acquired by your achievements. A doctor who has just qualified from the medical school is called “Doctor.” However, a doctor who has performed several complicated surgeries and has seen his patients survive and live on, is at a different rank. His medical achievements give him much greater authority than a greenhorn who has just arrived with his medical school certificate.

			As you can see from these two examples, authority is derived from the things you suffered, survived and went through as well as the achievements you chalk. What have you been through? What have you survived? What have you suffered?

			You must seek to be a man of real authority and not just to have symbols of authority.

			Many people clamour for titles, robes and other symbols of authority. What you need is real authority. Joshua was a real authority figure and he used his authority to protect the work that God had used him for. Authority figures must be feared because it is God who placed authority in their lives. Their authority is manifested in their words, their predictions, their prophecies, their oracles, their preaching, their teaching and their declarations. Symbols of authority, on the other hand, are manifested in things like rings, chains, hats, robes, titles and ceremonial clothes. Many people have symbols of authority but have no real authority.

			Authority figures are people like pastors, bishops, spiritual leaders, fathers, mothers and guardians. An authority figure is someone whom God has placed over your life for your good. These authority figures can speak words that can change your life. A word from such an authority figure can cause you to wither or flourish. Enlargement comes through curses and blessings spoken by such authority figures. Words spoken by these authority figures, result in the occurrence of strange works. Enlargement becomes possible when you receive the blessing of an authority figure. Authority figures are well described and well defined in the Bible.

			Every person is to be in subjection to the GOVERNING AUTHORITIES. For there is no authority except from God, and those which exist are established by God. Therefore whoever resists authority has opposed the ordinance of God; and they who have opposed will receive condemnation upon themselves.

			Romans 13:1-2 (NASB)

			It is important to respect and to fear what can happen to you through these authority figures. Many people dismiss the reality of authority figures to their own detriment. Your handling of an authority figure can determine the outcome of your life.

			For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.

			Matthew 8:9

			A man’s authority is revealed in the number of people that respond to him and obey him! The centurion described his understanding of authority by explaining how people obeyed him. A man’s authority is described and defined by the people that come and go at his word. “I say to one, ‘Come’ and he comes and to another, ‘Go’ and he goes!” An even higher form of authority is demonstrated when “non-humans” obey you. When animals obey you, when the wind obeys you, when the weather obeys you, when sickness obeys you, you are truly a man of great authority.

			Six Authority Figures

			1.	Jesus was an authority figure. He commanded the storms of the sea, the wind, the waves, the sick, the dead and even a tree. All these responded to His authority.

			And in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots. And Peter calling to remembrance saith unto him, Master, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away.

			Mark 11:20-21

			2.	Samuel became an authority figure; none of his words fell to the ground. Everything he said came to pass.

			And Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.

			1 Samuel 3:19

			3.	Elisha was an authority figure. He said there would be food within twenty-four hours and indeed it came to pass according to his word.

			Then Elisha said, Hear ye the word of the LORD; Thus saith the LORD, To morrow about this time shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria…. And the people went out, and spoiled the tents of the Syrians. So a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of the LORD.

			2 Kings 7:1, 16

			4.	Moses was an authority figure. He commanded a river to turn into blood and it happened.

			And the Lord spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and stretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams, upon their rivers, and upon their ponds, and upon all their pools of water, that they may become blood; and that there may be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and in vessels of stone. And Moses and Aaron did so, as the Lord commanded; and he lifted up the rod, and smote the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood.

			Exodus 7:19-20

			5.	Elijah was an authority figure. He commanded rain to cease and called in a famine for three and a half years.

			And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the LORD God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.

			1 Kings 17:1

			Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain: and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months.

			James 5:17

			6.	Isaac was an authority figure. He spoke a blessing over his son, Jacob, and it has been fulfilled for thousands of years.

			Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother’s sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.

			Genesis 27:29

			How Do You Become an Authority Figure?

			1.	You become an authority figure by being obedient to higher authorities. The more subject you are to a higher authority, the greater your own authority. The centurion exemplified this principle. He told Jesus that he understood authority because he himself was a man of authority. He revealed that his authority to command men was based on the fact that he himself was under authority. Indeed, I have no authority to command even twelve soldiers because I am not a soldier myself. If I issued a command to three soldiers I see standing by the roadside, they would simply ignore me. If they recognized that I myself was a soldier under authority, then they would listen to me. Authority comes from being under authority. When a man is deeply subjected to God, He derives great authority from God himself.

			For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.

			Luke 7:8

			2.	You become an authority figure by overcoming, fighting and winning wars. When you become an overcomer, you receive authority. Joshua, the commander of the Israelite army, gained his authority by fighting and winning wars. Everyone who has been through difficulty and has survived becomes a man of authority. Your scars make you a man of authority. That is why Jesus showed His scars, and not His crowns, when He appeared to His disciples.

			And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you. Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing. And Thomas answered and said unto him, My Lord and my God.

			John 20:26-28

			3.	You become a man of authority by accomplishing tasks that are given to you. Many times, authority is given to you as a reward for your faithfulness. In the Bible, Jesus gave us a parable of how someone gained authority over ten cities because he had accomplished his tasks and used his talents appropriately.

			Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds. And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: because thou hast been faithful in a very little, have thou AUTHORITY OVER TEN CITIES.

			Luke 19:16-17





CHAPTER 32




Enlarge Without Stealing




		 			And so it was, that all that fell that day, both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai. For Joshua drew not his hand back, wherewith he stretched out the spear, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai. Only the cattle and the spoil of that city Israel took for a prey unto themselves, according unto the word of the LORD which he commanded Joshua.

			Joshua 8:25-27

		 			Prospering, increasing and acquiring the nice things of this life must be according to the will of the Lord. In Jericho, God commanded that they take no money, cattle or food for themselves at all. However, in the city of Ai, God commanded them to take the cattle, the food, the money and anything they could lay their hands on.

			Your ministry will begin to enlarge and you will experience financial prosperity. Beginning this year, receive supernatural supplies in a way that you have never had before! Enlargement is taking you far away from all forms of financial stress. All through this season of enlargement, you will command supernatural financial provision in your life.

			God is not against prosperity! God desires for you to prosper! God blesses His servants but there are times He tells them to hold back and not to touch the money. Most ministries have changed because they did the opposite of this. They flew upon the spoil when they had a chance to. King Saul was rejected because he rushed to take the spoil.

			But Saul and the people SPARED AGAG, AND THE BEST OF THE SHEEP, AND OF THE OXEN, AND OF THE FATLINGS, AND THE LAMBS, AND ALL THAT WAS GOOD, AND WOULD NOT UTTERLY DESTROY THEM: but every thing that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly. Then came the word of the LORD unto Samuel, saying, It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king: for HE IS TURNED BACK FROM FOLLOWING ME, and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel; and he cried unto the LORD all night.

			1 Samuel 15:9-11

			This event drew a sharp rebuke from the Lord. He said, “The people have stopped following me. They have gone after the money!” Indeed, those who are following money have stopped following the Lord. As Saul enlarged, he quickly shifted from following the Lord to following other things. You must never do this. God has a plan to miraculously open the windows of heaven and supply all your needs. The season just ahead will bring new things, including financial blessings from above.

			Joshua was careful to be obedient about money and prosperity. You must enlarge but be very careful about money. If you keep this principle in your heart, you will be safe. When God keeps the spoil for Himself, He is not depriving you of anything. He is setting Himself up as your number one Helper. Do not be taken in by what many men of God are doing. Do not fly upon the spoil. Do not rush to get money or to become rich quickly. The desire for money corrupts all true ministry. Joshua wisely set aside the income from Jericho and concentrated on his core ministry of capturing cities and taking territories for the Lord.

			And ye, in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest ye make yourselves accursed, when ye take of the accursed thing, and make the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it. BUT ALL THE SILVER, AND GOLD, AND VESSELS OF BRASS AND IRON, ARE CONSECRATED UNTO THE LORD: THEY SHALL COME INTO THE TREASURY OF THE LORD. So the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets: and it came to pass, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, and the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city. And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with the edge of the sword.

			Joshua 6:18-21

			On the other hand, when Joshua took his campaign to the city of Ai, he was not restricted in what he could do. He took the spoil and everything he could lay his hands on. God was making him rich through this campaign.

			For Joshua drew not his hand back, wherewith he stretched out the spear, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai. ONLY THE CATTLE AND THE SPOIL OF THAT CITY ISRAEL TOOK FOR A PREY UNTO THEMSELVES, according unto the word of the Lord which he commanded Joshua. And Joshua burnt Ai, and made it an heap for ever, even a desolation unto this day.

			Joshua 8:26-28

			God will make you rich as you serve Him. In your lifetime, you will see good things that other members of your family have not seen. From this time onwards, every step of your life is going forward! The favour of God is establishing you! Enlargement is God’s grace for your life! There is no need to steal money. God will provide for you!





CHAPTER 33




Enlarge by Teaching and Demonstrating




		 			And all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace: none moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel.Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring out those five kings unto me out of the cave. And they did so, and brought forth those five kings unto him out of the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.

			And it came to pass, when they brought out those kings unto Joshua, that JOSHUA CALLED FOR ALL THE MEN OF ISRAEL, AND SAID UNTO THE CAPTAINS OF THE MEN OF WAR WHICH WENT WITH HIM, COME NEAR, PUT YOUR FEET UPON THE NECKS OF THESE KINGS. And they came near, and put their feet upon the necks of them. And Joshua said unto them, Fear not, nor be dismayed, be strong and of good courage: for thus shall the LORD do to all your enemies against whom ye fight. And afterward Joshua smote them, and slew them, and hanged them on five trees: and they were hanging upon the trees until the evening. And it came to pass at the time of the going down of the sun, that Joshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, and cast them into the cave wherein they had been hid, and laid great stones in the cave’s mouth, which remain until this very day.

			Joshua 10:21-27

		 			Joshua experienced enlargement by teaching his leaders and demonstrating the power of God to them. Joshua did not just experience personal victories. Joshua was someone who enlarged his ministry by teaching others and involving them in his victories. Who are you involving in your ministry? Who are you training? Who is coming up by your side? A blessed man has his quiver full of children. A blessed minister has his quiver full of up-and-coming ministers. You will be happy in the future if you have your quiver full of anointed, young and zealous ministers.

			As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.

			Psalm 127:4-5

			Every man of God is limited. Your days are numbered and your ability to minister to the world is very limited indeed. Very soon, you will be declared too old or too weak to minister in a certain way. Very soon you will realise that you cannot travel to the whole world any more. You will find out that you cannot preach all the time. No matter how great you are and how fruitful you are, God does not intend for you to live forever.

			This is why you need to train other people. Your ministry must be like a teaching hospital. In a teaching hospital, the doctors practice medicine and constantly teach other medical students. Every patient becomes a specimen for medical students to learn from. In a teaching hospital, practicing medicine and training younger ones go side by side.

			Your ministry must be like a teaching hospital if you want to experience enlargement. You must preach, teach and travel with up-and-coming younger ministers. Your ministry must be a demonstration of God’s power to your followers.

			Start teaching and demonstrating things early in your ministry. No one around you will amount to anything unless you teach them what to do. God wants to give you enlargement. To enlarge, you need people.

			To experience enlargement in your ministry, you need to have duplicates, followers, disciples and devoted students. There is no way to have new doctors unless you go through the complicated and laborious training of a doctor.

			To train a new surgeon, they say, “He must watch one, he must assist one and he must do one.” The new doctor must be allowed to watch surgeries, assist in surgeries and actually do a surgery himself.

			To have great and young men of God, you must allow them to watch the ministry, assist in the ministry and then do the ministry!

			The Joshua generation will demonstrate the power of God to many others so that there can be enlargement, expansion and growth.





CHAPTER 34




Enlarge by the Fathers’ Instructions




		 			The LORD had commanded his servant Moses to do all of those things. Moses had passed that command on to Joshua. And Joshua carried it out. He did everything the LORD had commanded Moses.

			Joshua 11:15 (NIRV)

		 			In order to experience enlargement, you must follow the instructions that God gives to you. But you must also take note of the instructions given to the fathers that existed before you.

			The instructions given to your fathers may be very relevant for your life and ministry.

			The Joshua generation respects all the instructions given to fathers before them. Notice that the scripture above reveals that Joshua completely fulfilled the instructions given to Moses (and not to Joshua).

			Throughout my life and ministry, I have always taken note of instructions given to fathers who lived before me. They have formed an important part of the things that guide me in the ministry. You must remember what God spoke to your fathers about and consider them as guidance for your life and ministry.

			I remember listening to Kenneth Hagin as he spoke about a vision he had of Jesus. He had had an accident in which he fell from the stage and broke his hand. The Lord appeared to him and explained what had happened. The Lord said He had allowed the devil to attack him.

			He continued, “Instead of being angry with Me for allowing this to happen, you should be grateful that I allowed this to happen so that I could get your attention.” Then He rebuked Kenneth Hagin for paying more attention to the teaching ministry than to the prophetic ministry.

			He concluded, “If I had not gotten your attention to make you change course, you would not have lived beyond the age of fifty-five.” Indeed, I shivered when I read this story and have always been concerned that I would not make the same mistake.

			I was very happy when I was fifty-five years old because I felt that I had crossed an important barrier. To wrongfully give attention to one calling above another is a serious mistake. I also learnt that little accidents and events are spiritually orchestrated. Nothing happens by chance! Kenneth Hagin described how the wood on the stage was very well polished and smooth and that is how come he slipped and fell on the stage.

			He described how a tape recorder had been placed at the right-hand side of the stage and how he fell on it. Kenneth Hagin described how the Lord spoke to him audibly in the car as they rushed to the hospital. I learnt how a combination of the natural and the supernatural were working in the life of this man of God.

			The messages given to your fathers will always be important to you. The message given to Moses by the Lord was important to Joshua. The message was not given directly to Joshua but God’s message to Moses was equally important to Joshua.

			I remember listening to Derek Prince as he spoke about God commissioning him to the ministry. He said that God had told him to be obedient in little things as well as in big things. He stressed on how God had showed him that it was important to be as obedient in little things as in big things. Many people ignore the little things that turn out to be as important as the big things. When I heard him describing his calling, I took it as an instruction for myself. It was important for me to be obedient in little things as well as in big things. Enlargement comes when you listen to and apply instructions given to your fathers.

			I remember reading from Reinhard Bonnke on how the Lord gave him a vision about his ministry. In the vision he saw a very large ship that was manoeuvring its way down a river. The ship was unable to turn around within the river. The Lord told him that his ministry was not versatile and easily manoeuvrable. He needed to become more versatile and flexible so that the Spirit would lead him more easily.

			Every time I meditated on that vision, I sensed God speaking to me to be flexible and versatile in my own ministry. It is easy for a ministry to become too large, too heavy and not easy to control and direct. When you are too stiff, God cannot use you to do many things.

			I remember listening to Yonggi Cho preaching. He spoke about how he had had a heart problem and seen a Japanese doctor who advised him to play golf. The doctor explained how he would add ten more years to his life if he played golf. He was explaining to the congregation why it was important for him to play golf. When I listened to Yonggi Cho sharing these things, I felt that God was showing me what was important for my life.

			God spoke to Yonggi Cho about the things that are important for church growth. First of all, prayer, good preaching, the cell system and a good administration. Out of these four things, he felt the Lord showing him that prayer was the most important pillar for church growth.

			These are not things that God spoke to me about. They are things that God spoke to my fathers about. The Joshua generation is keen to follow instructions given to the fathers. You do not need to have an instruction given to you directly. Once an instruction is given to your father it will work for you too.

			Instructions given to fathers are like precious gems. They work for your fathers and they will work for you too.

			I believe God spoke to James McKeown, the father of the Church of Pentecost, a denomination of over ten thousand churches. McKeown handed over his church to his leaders and allowed the church to run without him. This gave the Church of Pentecost the ability to survive beyond his lifetime and into the future. Seeing how the Lord led James McKeown encouraged me to follow the same pattern of handing things over whilst I am still around.

			Enlargement will surely come when you listen carefully to hear what is said to your fathers and predecessors. It is time to open your ears and listen to the stories and testimonies of the fathers. It will bring great enlargement to your life.





CHAPTER 35




Enlarge Against Hard Hearts




		 			Joshua made war a long time with all those kings. There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, save the Hivites the inhabitants of Gibeon: all other they took in battle. FOR IT WAS OF THE LORD TO HARDEN THEIR HEARTS, that they should come against Israel in battle, that he might destroy them utterly, and that they might have no favour, but that he might destroy them, as the Lord commanded Moses.

			Joshua 11:18-20

		 			Enlargement, expansion and growth are possible in spite of the hardened hearts that you encounter.

			In the ministry you will meet people with hard hearts. A person with a hard heart is the same as a stubborn person. A stubborn and difficult person is a catalyst for conflict and war.

			The Joshua generation is forced to fight against hard-hearted people. Do not be discouraged when you encounter hard-hearted people. When you encounter a hardened person, sharpen all your skills for fighting wars. Study the art of war and the art of being a good general. Rise up and fight a good fight because God has hardened the hearts of these people for your sake.

			Hardened people are part of God’s plan for your enlargement. Hardened people will stir up the spirit of the warrior in you.

			All through my ministry, I have encountered hardened people who were unyielding in their dealings with me. Every single one of them was used by God to carve out His will. The Joshua generation encountered people who hardened themselves against the Israelites. These hard-hearted people gave the Israelites no other option than to fight and eliminate them. It was of the Lord to harden their hearts so that God would destroy them utterly.

			Do not be sad when you meet people who never agree, never say yes, never give in, never yield, never soften, never bow and never flow. Stubbornness is always a negative thing. Stubbornness always leads to destruction. I have never seen a stubborn person who is not eventually destroyed. Stubbornness in your enemy is God’s way of destroying him. Notice many scriptures which say how God intentionally caused the enemies of Israel to harden their hearts.

			1.	God hardened Pharaoh’s heart because He wanted to destroy Egypt. Sometimes it is God who is hardening the heart of your enemy.

			And the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh: for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I might shew these my signs before him:

			Exodus 10:1

			2.	God hardened the hearts of the kings in The Promised Land so that Joshua would destroy them.

			There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, save the Hivites the inhabitants of Gibeon: all other they took in battle. FOR IT WAS OF THE LORD TO HARDEN THEIR HEARTS, THAT THEY SHOULD COME AGAINST ISRAEL IN BATTLE, THAT HE MIGHT DESTROY THEM UTTERLY, and that they might have no favour, but that he might destroy them, as the Lord commanded Moses.

			Joshua 11:19-20

			The victory over the hard-hearted and the unchanging ones is part of the call and destiny of Joshua and Caleb. Do not be discouraged that you have to fight with so many hard-hearted ones who never agree, never give in, or never soften at all unless there is a full-fledged fight.

			3.	God hardened the heart of Sihon the King of Heshbon so that he could expand Israel. Throughout your ministry you will encounter people with stubborn hearts. The stubborn hearts you encounter will lead you to fight for total deliverance.

			But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him: for the LORD thy God hardened his spirit, and made his heart obstinate, that he might deliver him into thy hand, as appeareth this day.

			Deuteronomy 2:30

			Some years ago, we encountered some hardened characters in our city. We tried to make peace with them but nothing worked out. Every meeting with the community seemed to backfire. Meetings with government officials did not yield anything. No matter what we did, the community in which our church was planted was hostile towards us. Some people pledged that they would not rest until our church was completely destroyed. Through the stubbornness of those community leaders, we were forced to find another location that became our new expanded base. Through these stubborn people, the will of God came to pass and today we have experienced church expansion and enlargement.

			Perhaps, you wanted to keep a friend that you really cherished but the person was unyielding and stubborn. Do not worry too much. Perhaps God has hardened the heart of that person. God wants to purge you of that relationship. God wants to take that person out of your life and ministry.

			You must enlarge even when you encounter the hardened hearts of opponents and wicked people. Your encounter with hardened people will lead to your expansion and deliverance.





CHAPTER 36




Enlarge by Wiping out Giants




		 			But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we. And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which we have gone to search it, is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof; and all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature. And THERE WE SAW THE GIANTS, THE SONS OF ANAK, which come of the giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.

			Numbers 13:31-33

		 			The generation of Moses was frightened by the giants they encountered. Everyone is going to encounter giants in life and ministry. A giant is an extra-large problem! There are many extra-large problems waiting for you on the road of ministry. The Moses generation was afraid of giants. The existence of giants destroyed them. You must not run away from giants like the Moses generation did. You must not bring back an evil report. You must not sow seeds of doubt in everyone around you. You must not speak evil of God’s purpose just because you have seen a giant.

			The Joshua generation kills the long-necked giants of their day. Whatever represents a giant in your life will bow to your ministry. You can overcome the giants in your life and ministry. Because of your faith and obedience you will cut off all large-sized enemies.

			And at that time CAME JOSHUA, AND CUT OFF THE ANAKIMS from the mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the mountains of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel: Joshua destroyed them utterly with their cities. There was none of the Anakims left in the land of the children of Israel: only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, there remained.

			Joshua 11:21-22

			What Are the Giants of Ministry?

			1.	The giant of poverty

			Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man’s wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.

			Ecclesiastes 9:16

			In many places, one of the giants of ministry is poverty. It is a giant that seeks to wipe out your ministry. The giant of poverty will seek to drown the words and the ministry that God has given to you. A poor man’s words are not heard!

			 Books written in certain parts of the world are rarely read. The poverty and difficulty in these places seem to tell the rest of the world that no wisdom can be found there, so do not read any books that come from there.

			The giant of poverty will prevent you from building church buildings and conducting crusades. It is important that you overcome this giant because it can destroy your ministry. Many ministers are destroyed by financial giants and that is why they become motivational speakers and financial preachers. In their quest to overcome the giant of poverty, they metamorphose into another version of ministry. True ministry is to preach about the cross of Jesus Christ.

			2.	The giant of “pornia”

			Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them, which from among the Gentiles are turned to God: But that we write unto them, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood.

			Acts 15:19-20

			Fornication is from the Greek word, “pornia” which encompasses fornication, adultery, incest, homosexuality, prostitution, bestiality, pornography and so on. Fornication represents the entire range of immoral activities that exist in the world.

			Many people have had some kind of sexual and immoral experience in their lives. Most of the time, these sexual and immoral experiences influence their future lives and ministries. Sexual sin is a spiritual giant that consumes those who fall for it. Satan has ensured that sexual immorality is an extra-large problem today.

			Today, all kinds of sexual activities and perversions are freely available for almost anyone. It is important to overcome this giant because it is not possible to minister the word of God whilst living in immorality. The early church was given guidelines of things to avoid. One of the important things for the early church was the giant of fornication.

			The giant of “pornia” often remains a giant because people do not see it and deal with it as a giant. Most people who fall for immorality have dealt mildly and casually with the problem of fornication. You must rise up and be extreme in your fight to keep yourself from sexual immorality. You can and you will overcome the giant of sexual immorality!

			3.	The giant of bad marriages

			If anyone does not know how to manage his own family, how can he take care of God’s church?

			1 Timothy 3:5 (NIV)

			Contrary to the picture that is commonly given, many marriages of ministers are not happy ones. I was saddened to hear both Derek Prince and Kenneth Hagin say that most of the ministers they knew about had bad and difficult marriages. Bad marriages create a de-housing effect for ministers.

			During the Second World War, the British Air Force decided to bomb the cities of Germany and destroy the homes of the German citizens. This controversial decision had the effect of de-housing the German citizenry who no more had homes to go to. This act of war was a terrible blow against the Germans who were effectively de-housed. The homeless population of Germans became more vulnerable and easier to defeat.

			The giant of bad marriages de-houses ministers who do not have a peaceful home to go to. They no longer feel happy in their homes. They no longer have a place of rest. They no longer have a place to relax and feel free.

			Satan seeks to de-house God’s servants by giving them bad marriages. It is time for you to fight the root of bad marriages in the ministry.





CHAPTER 37




Enlarge by Accepting God’s Inheritance




		 			But unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not any inheritance: THE LORD GOD OF ISRAEL WAS THEIR INHERITANCE, as he said unto them.

			Joshua 13:33

			Only unto the tribe of Levi he gave none inheritance; THE SACRIFICES OF THE LORD GOD OF ISRAEL MADE BY FIRE ARE THEIR INHERITANCE, as he said unto them.

			Joshua 13:14

		 			Enlarge by accepting God’s inheritance for your life! God’s inheritance is Himself! He told the tribe of Levi that they would have no land. They would have Him instead of having land. Practically speaking, they would eat the sacrifices of the people instead of having land for themselves. God has always wanted people who would trust Him alone. God wants people who have faith in His ability to provide.

			Today, people prefer to work for the world than to work for the ministry. It is time to trust in the Lord. It is time to seek the kingdom of God first. How much can you accomplish if you work for God in the evenings or at weekends? Why do the banks want you to be present every day before 8.00 am, whether you have children to drop off at school or not? The bank wants to get the best out of every worker.

			Why do you not tell the bank that you will come to work in the evening or at the weekend? God equally wants nice people to work for Him. He wants you to serve Him and trust Him to take care of you. Just as you trust the bank, you must trust the Lord!

			It is not easy to accept God’s inheritance. You need faith to believe that God can take care of you. Every man of God must tap into the supernatural power of God and learn how to live from the sacrifices that God’s people make. If you are anointed, God will provide for you.

			Some years ago, God spoke to me early in the morning. He said, “Give yourself wholly to Me. Give yourself to My work and I will provide for you.” I had to leave my business and my profession and enter into full-time ministry, trusting the Lord to provide for me and my family.

			Then I had a dream. I was walking on a lonely road and I saw what looked like a heap of sand. As I got closer, I realized that it was a heap of gold coins. I was amazed and decided to arrange for a truck and to cart my newfound wealth away. Then the Holy Spirit said to me, “There is no need to do that. Just take a handful off the coins and continue on your way.” I exclaimed, “How can I leave the rest of the gold coins behind? They are so valuable. They can sustain me for the rest of my life and ministry.” Then the Lord said to me, “On the road that I have called you, there are many of such heaps. There is no need to end your journey at this heap of coins. Keep walking! I will provide for you along the way.” Indeed, He has provided for me all these years. If God has called you, there will be heaps of gold coins on the road that you are on.

			Unimaginable feats and unimaginable victories in the ministry will come forth from you as you trust in the Lord. That will be your testimony! Believe in God and enter full-time ministry! Amazing achievements, in an unimaginable period of time, will be your testimony if you trust in God! Beginning from this time, when you place your trust in the Lord, expect changes that have only supernatural explanations.





CHAPTER 38




Enlarge into the War Mode




		 			And Joshua the son of Nun SENT OUT OF SHITTIM TWO MEN TO SPY SECRETLY, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. AND THEY WENT, and came into an harlot’s house, named Rahab, and lodged there. And it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, there came men in hither to night of the children of Israel to search out the country. And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee, which are entered into thine house: for they be come to search out all the country. And the woman took the two men, and hid them, and said thus, There came men unto me, but I wist not whence they were: And it came to pass about the time of shutting of the gate, when it was dark, that the men went out: whither the men went I wot not: PURSUE AFTER THEM QUICKLY; FOR YE SHALL OVERTAKE THEM. But she had brought them up to the roof of the house, and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she had laid in order upon the roof.

			Joshua 2:1-6

		 			War changes everything! During war, it seems it is legal for soldiers to shoot fellow human beings and drop bombs on other fellow human beings because they have declared war on them. One soldier can kill a thousand other men; yet he will not be charged with murder. War changes everything! War involves things like spies, secrets, lies, hiding, deception, covenants, agreements, promises, secrecy, hidden things, treachery, covered things and even harlots. In times of peace, many of these things would be unacceptable.

			In the war that Joshua fought, he had to deploy the friendship of a harlot, he had to sleep in a harlot’s house, he had to use spies, he had to tell lies, he had to hide, he had to deceive the authorities, he had to enter agreements with enemies and have secret covenants with some others. These would all be considered wrong in a time of peace.

			The Joshua generation will be able to win any war they find themselves in. They will walk confidently and wage war on an enemy who only wants to kill them. To fail to operate according to the rules of war can make you lose a war. Often, it is some particular things that will give you the key to victory over an enemy who does not have any rules at all.

			I do not know what the war mode is for you. However, you need to war a good warfare so that you achieve the victory. Do not underestimate your enemy. Fight extremes with extremes. Your enemy is fighting to kill you. He is deploying all sorts of wicked strategies to kill you, to steal from you and to destroy you. Do not hesitate to wipe out your enemy.

			When Jesus was ministering on earth, He was challenged severely about certain things He did. He was questioned about the legitimacy of His ministry. Jesus was accused of violating the Law. They were so angry with Him that they wanted to destroy Him.

			And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there which had a withered hand. And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him. And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, Stand forth. And he saith unto them, IS IT LAWFUL TO DO GOOD ON THE SABBATH DAYS, OR TO DO EVIL? TO SAVE LIFE, OR TO KILL? But they held their peace. And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it out: and his hand was restored whole as the other. And the Pharisees went forth, and straightway took counsel with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.

			Mark 3:1-6

			Jesus asked an important question, “Is it right to do good or to do evil? You may have to ask yourself the question that Jesus asked, “Is it lawful to do good or to do evil. Is it lawful to save lives or to kill?” In every battle of your life and ministry, you must be doing good and you must be saving lives!





CHAPTER 39




Enlargement Through Pain




		 			At that time the Lord said unto Joshua, Make thee sharp knives, and circumcise again the children of Israel the second time. And Joshua made him sharp knives, and circumcised the children of Israel at the hill of the foreskins.

			Joshua 5:2-3

		 			Enlargement is possible when you understand pain. The whole world is living in pain. There are many painful things going on all around you. People have been raped, robbed and murdered. Much injustice has taken place in the last twenty-four hours. There is a lot of suffering, sickness and death everywhere. People are living in sin and do not know how to get out of it.

			Without understanding the pain that is in the world, you cannot minister to people properly. The majority of the world is not experiencing a prosperity boom of new cars and houses. The majority of the world is experiencing the opposite. The majority of the world is living in sin, sickness, difficulty and complicated problems. The pain of the world must be on your heart. You cannot live in utopia and expect to understand the world.

			Joshua and his team were asked to circumcise the children of Israel for the second time. They made sharp knives to circumcise the children of Israel. The Israelites were made to experience pain as part of their calling. Sometimes, experiencing pain is part of your call. It is not that you have done anything wrong. It is simply a part of God’s purpose for you – to go through certain painful things. Circumcision is part of the call and its attendant pain is part of the call.

			There is no ministry without pain. Pain is a part of your call. If you are following Jesus, you will experience all the things that Jesus experienced. When Jesus was arrested, some people tried to prevent Him from being taken away. They pulled out swords and attacked the team that had come to arrest Jesus. Jesus stopped them and asked an important question, “How else will the scriptures be fulfilled?

			Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? BUT HOW THEN SHALL THE SCRIPTURES BE FULFILLED, THAT THUS IT MUST BE?

			Matthew 26:52-54

			Jesus asked the question, “How else will the scriptures be fulfilled?” Jesus wanted to know how the prophecies would come to pass if they would not come to pass through the very people standing there. The scriptures can only be fulfilled through the people that are around you.

			Think about it: the only qualification for being a Judas is that you must be very close to the leader. Jesus said that a disciple is not above his master. You must expect to go through the same things that Jesus experienced.

			The scripture cannot be broken. Everything that is written will surely happen. There are many things that have to come to pass in your life and ministry. As you follow Jesus, you must expect to see all the things that Jesus saw. The disciple is not greater than his master. Jesus suffered greatly at the hands of wicked and unreasonable men. You can expect to meet wicked and unreasonable men. Your peace will be painfully circumcised from you.

			Jesus was betrayed by Judas! You can expect to encounter Judases in your life and ministry. Jesus experienced pain! You can expect to have pain! Jesus was abandoned by His disciples! You can expect your disciples to abandon you! Peter denied Jesus! You can expect some of your closest disciples to deny you and say they do not know you. There will be times where your closest disciples will be painfully circumcised away from you.

			He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the multitude of his bones with strong pain:

			Job 33:19

			God can chasten you with pain and it is a sign that you are His son. When you are not chastened you are a bastard.

			For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not? But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.

			Hebrews 12:6-8

			I wish I could tell you that you are going to be happy all the time because you are serving God. But that is not the case. If you stay on the straight and narrow path, I can assure you that there will be times of great sadness and pain ahead. There will be times of circumcision. The painfulness of your experiences will have a good effect on your soul. You will be wiser because of the tears you have shed.

			It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and THE LIVING WILL LAY IT TO HIS HEART.

			Ecclesiastes 7:2





CHAPTER 40




Enlarge In Your Private Life




		 			At that time the Lord said unto Joshua, Make thee sharp knives, and circumcise again the children of Israel the second time. AND JOSHUA MADE HIM SHARP KNIVES, AND CIRCUMCISED THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL at the hill of the foreskins.

			Joshua 5:2-3

		 			Enlargement is possible when you are prepared to work on the hidden aspects of your life. Expansion in the public eye is because you have expanded in the private realm. Circumcision is a painful private operation on the private parts. After circumcision the private parts are re-shaped and re-formatted. When you perform a circumcision on anything, it changes its shape and its look.

			The Joshua generation are ready to have their private lives painfully re-shaped and re-fashioned so that they can be obedient to the Lord. All those who want to experience expansion and growth are ready to endure private pain and humiliation for the sake of the ministry.

			Circumcision takes place on the private parts. You will never know if a man is circumcised or not, unless he tells you. Similarly, enlargement is possible when you are prepared to work on the hidden aspects of your life and ministry. People who do not work on the hidden parts of their lives only live to regret it. What is on the inside always comes out on the outside. Circumcision is an operation that simply brings improvement.

			There are three private aspects of your life that you need to work on. There are three areas of your private life that need improvement.

			1.	Circumcise your giving: Do a private operation on your private giving.

			Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven.

			Matthew 6:1

			Your giving should not be accompanied with boasting. Giving is not something you do to show off. Giving is something you do to show your love to God and to His house. Jesus said we should learn to give privately and reap publicly. If you work on your private giving you will see God honouring you in public.

			2.	Circumcise your prayer: Do a private operation on your private prayer life. You will experience enlargement.

			But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.

			Matthew 6:6

			You must overhaul your prayer life. You must be able to pray for hours on your own. There is no point in growing up without being able to pray for several hours in a day. If you want to be a minister, you must be able to pray for several hours in a day. Learn to pray for three hours! Learn to pray for seven hours! Learn to pray for twelve hours! God will reward you openly.

			3.	Circumcise your fasting: Do a private operation on your fasting life. You will experience enlargement.

			But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.

			Matthew 6:17-18

			Learn to fast without anyone knowing that you are fasting. Learn to live a fasted life where you can fast for days without being under pressure to eat much. When you work on your fasting life privately, you will experience great enlargement.





CHAPTER 41




Enlarge Your Interaction with Angels




		 			And it came to pass, when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, behold, THERE STOOD A MAN OVER AGAINST HIM WITH HIS SWORD DRAWN IN HIS HAND: and Joshua went unto him, and said unto him, Art thou for us, or for our adversaries? And he said, Nay; but as captain of the host of the Lord am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and did worship, and said unto him, what saith my lord unto his servant? And the captain of the Lord’s host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot; for the place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so.

			Joshua 5:13-15

		 			Enlargement is not possible unless you deal with the invisible world.

			Joshua was not just an army commander. He was a supernatural and spiritual person who interacted with angels. It is sad to see pastors who behave like secular school teachers without any sign of the supernatural on their lives. There are supernatural factors at work. God is Spirit, angels are spirits, demons are evil spirits! We are dealing with the invisible world. Enlargement is not possible unless you deal with the invisible world!

			It is important that you receive the ministration of angels. There are angels everywhere. Angels will fly to the place of your ministry and assist you there. They will strike down your enemies and fight against those who fight against you. You must believe in the presence of these supernatural agents of God’s power. Angels are always at work and your faith in supernatural intervention must be great if you are to experience the power of God.

			One day, the Lord Jesus appeared to the prophet Kenneth Hagin and told him that He had sent His angel to him on an earlier occasion. However, because Kenneth Hagin had not been open to the angel, the angel had left without giving his supernatural message. Kenneth Hagin recounted how he had sensed the presence of someone in the room but had not been able to receive the angelic visitation. Because of this, the angel left without saying anything.

			If you are not open to the presence of angels, you will not receive what you could from them.

			Interacting with Angels

			1.	The presence of an angel

			And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth, To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin’s name was Mary. And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art highly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.

			Luke 1:26-28

			You must be able to sense the presence of an angel. God sends angels to minister to you. You may not see the angel but you may sense his presence. The angel who is present in the room with you is sent from the Lord with a message. The angel Gabriel was sent to Mary with a message from the Lord. God will send an angel to bring you a message. I once sensed the presence of an angel when I was in Scotland. It was a very strong presence at the foot of my bed. I received a mysterious message from the Lord. I have kept that Word up till now.

			2.	 Seeing an angel

			For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.

			Psalm 91:11

			It is important for you to see angels when the Lord sends them to you. Pray for God to open your eyes. You will see angels. One day, on a flight across the Atlantic Ocean, I saw “someone” sitting by me on the plane, wearing a light blue robe. I was surprised. I had just seen an angel and he was flying with me to where I was going. You would be surprised at the number of angels that accompany you on your various trips.

			On a number of occasions people have seen angels around me. One day, someone saw a large angel standing by me on the church car park. She had seen an angel with me before but this angel was larger. She told me that she sensed that God had promoted me because the angel that she saw was much larger and looked much more senior than the previous angel.

			One time, whilst ministering in Canada, I noticed a lady sitting in the congregation and weeping. I wondered what I was doing wrong. As I continued ministering, she continued weeping. After the service, I asked her what was wrong. She pointed to some chairs on the stage and said Jesus was sitting behind me and watching me as I ministered. This lady had experienced a supernatural vision with her eyes open.

			On another occasion, whilst ministering at a conference in South Africa, a white South African lady saw several angels in the hall. This lady said she had a special gift to see angels. She was so amazed at the number of angels that entered the hall during the ministration. She made sure that the message got to me about the numerous angels that she had seen in the hall during the ministration.

			3.	The strike of a redeeming angel

			The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.

			Genesis 48:16

			Jacob said that an angel had redeemed him from evil throughout his life. God sends angels to help His precious servants. God sends angels to contend against those who contend against you. God will send angels to strike your enemies. Instead of you having to chase your enemies, fighting angels will be released to fight for you.

			One day, during a particular season in our church, a brother noticed some movements behind me as he reviewed the video of the service. As he looked more closely and intently at the video, he saw an angel standing behind me, flexing his muscles. Initially, I passed it off as a shadow on the screen. But after looking at it closely, it was impossible to ignore the reality. It was an awesome sight to behold a real angel caught on camera. You can have a look at that video and enjoy the supernatural power of God through angels.





CHAPTER 42




Enlarge by Switching from the Supernatural to the Natural




		 			And the children of Israel encamped in Gilgal, and kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the month at even in the plains of Jericho. And they did eat of the old corn of the land on the morrow after the passover, unleavened cakes, and parched corn in the selfsame day. And the manna ceased on the morrow after they had eaten of the old corn of the land; NEITHER HAD THE CHILDREN OF ISRAEL MANNA ANY MORE; BUT THEY DID EAT OF THE FRUIT OF THE LAND OF CANAAN THAT YEAR.

			Joshua 5:10-12

		 			Follow the example of the Joshua generation who were able to switch from the supernatural to the natural when they needed to. Enlargement requires the ability to switch from the natural to the supernatural and do it well.

			The children of Israel were instructed to stop using manna and eat the fruit of the land. They were to till the land like everyone else and become farmers. They were used to eating the supernatural supplies that came down from heaven. They had done this for forty years. Their switch to the life of normal farmers was seamless because they were an obedient generation.

			It is important to excel in the supernatural as well as in natural things. Many spiritual people are unable to properly switch to do natural things. It is important to pray! It is important to wait on God! It is important to fast! It is important to worship. These are all supernatural things which God expects us to do. However, when God instructs you to do the natural, it is important to do it well.

			 Five Natural Things that You Must Excel in

			1.	Leadership

			So the LORD said to Moses, “Take Joshua son of Nun, a man in whom is the spirit of leadership, and lay your hand on him.

			Numbers 27:18 (NIV)

			Ministers of the gospel must be good at leadership. If you put me at the helm of a ship carrying a thousand containers, I would not know how to turn the ship left or right. I would not know how to enter a harbour and I would not know how to dock the ship.

			I would also not know how to unload the ship. I would be hopeless and helpless at the helm of affairs. You can only expect chaos on the ship from someone like me who has no idea on how to properly guide a ship. This is how some ministers are when they are placed at the helm of affairs. They have no idea how to steer the affairs of the ship. They cannot take the ship forward or backward. They cannot unload the cargo of the ship. They cannot receive new containers and consignments. Many churches are aimless ships with incompetent captains. The pastor knows all about prayer, fasting and visitation but he has not got any clue about how to lead and steer the affairs of the ship on the high seas.

			2.	Administration

			And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.

			1 Corinthians 12:28

			Ministers of the gospel must fast, pray and worship but after that fasting, they must have a good administration for their church. Having reliable data, statistics, facts and figures is key to having a successful church. Many spiritual people are unable to do proper administrative work. A good administration is key to the survival of a successful ministry. Yonggi Cho, pastor of the largest church in the world, gave four important keys to church growth. One of these keys was the key of a good administration.

			3.	Medical care

			Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach’s sake and thine often infirmities.

			1 Timothy 5:23

			Ministers of the gospel must take medical care seriously. Someone had a programme where he advertised a campaign against “devils, drugs and doctors”. Though he was a powerful man of God, he did not believe in the work of medical doctors. It is important that you allow the Holy Spirit to lead you to the right medical responses when you experience demonic attacks on your life. Many people are dying before their time because they do not believe in any of the medical advice that is available today.

			4.	Legal work

			Do everything you can to help Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their way and see that they have everything they need.

			Titus 3:13 (NIV)

			God will bless you as you do your legal work properly. Many churches have suffered because they did not do their legal work properly. It is almost as though spirituality sets aside common sense and everything that is natural. There are churches that do not have a proper plan of succession. Only a small fraction of people have proper Wills. God will deliver you from many evil spirits if you perform these mundane tasks properly. Follow the example of the Israelites who were able to switch from supernatural manna to corn.

			5.	Finances

			For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee:

			Titus 1:5

			Ensure that your finances are in order even though you are praying for God to supply your needs according to His riches. Decide to live without debts. Decide to live within your means. Decide to save money rather than to raise money. Decide to celebrate less and achieve more. Decide to give more and be liberal. Decide to waste less so you can have more surpluses.





CHAPTER 43




Enlargement Will Last a Long Time




		 			So Joshua took all that land, the hills, and all the south country, and all the land of Goshen, and the valley, and the plain, and the mountain of Israel, and the valley of the same; Even from the mount Halak, that goeth up to Seir, even unto Baalgad in the valley of Lebanon under mount Hermon: and all their kings he took, and smote them, and slew them. JOSHUA MADE WAR A LONG TIME WITH ALL THOSE KINGS.

			Joshua 11:16-18

		 			Expansion will take place for a long time to come. God is a God of enlargement and expansion. Get ready for a long fight! There is no substantial ministry that does not involve your whole life. Joshua made war for a long time. The younger, more eager generation, who serve God from their youth upwards, will serve God for a long time. When you begin to serve God from your youth, you will fight a good fight for many years. You will fight for a long time.

			Expansion is not a nine-day wonder. Those who seek to enlarge do so for over a long period of time. They make war for a long time. They plant churches for a long time. They work for God for a long time. They have crusades for a long time. They enlarge and grow for many years.

			Keys to Lasting Long in Ministry

			1.	Honour your father and have a long-lasting ministry.

			Honour thy father and mother; (which is the first commandment with promise;) That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest LIVE LONG on the earth.

			Ephesians 6:2-3

			Honouring your father is important because it activates a blessing that makes you last long in the ministry. Honouring your father makes you avoid the mistakes your father made.

			2.	Honour your mother and have a long-lasting ministry.

			Honour thy father and mother; (which is the first commandment with promise;) That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest LIVE LONG on the earth.

			Ephesians 6:2-3

			Honouring your mother is important. Honouring your mother equally activates a blessing that is important for your life and ministry. Honouring your mother causes you to sow a seed of faithfulness and love that you can expect to reap in years to come. The reward for honouring your father and your mother is long life.

			3.	Get wisdom and have a long-lasting ministry.

			Happy is the man that findeth WISDOM, and the man that getteth understanding… LENGTH OF DAYS IS IN HER RIGHT HAND; and in her left hand riches and honour.

			Proverbs 3:13, 16

			Through wisdom, you will be enabled to live long and last long in the ministry. People live much longer in places like Japan and Switzerland. Life expectancy in these countries is over eighty years. In these countries, a lot of science, technology and wisdom is used. Unfortunately, in other parts of the world, where less wisdom is applied, life expectancy is much shorter.

			4.	Obey commandments and have a long-lasting ministry.

			My son, FORGET NOT MY LAW; but let thine heart keep my commandments: For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee.

			Proverbs 3:1-2

			Obedience is the master key to experiencing the blessings of God in your life. Almost all the curses in the Bible come from disobeying God. Curses arise in the ministry when we walk in disobedience. Adam and Eve would have been alive today if they had not lived in disobedience. The curse and overwhelming desolation that has engulfed the human race came through disobedience. Obeying commandments is always the reason for surviving for a long time and receiving many blessings.





CHAPTER 44




Enlargement in the Midst of Your Years




		 			Now Joshua was old and stricken in years; and the Lord said unto him, Thou art old and stricken in years, and there remaineth yet very much land to be possessed …. Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance unto the nine tribes, and the half tribe of Manasseh,

			Joshua 13:1, 7

			It is possible to enlarge and expand endlessly. You will enlarge endlessly in the way that Joshua and Caleb did. Beginning from now, you will get stronger and stronger according to the word of God! Instead of getting weaker and weaker, you will be declared stronger and stronger. Your path is shining brighter and brighter according to Proverbs 4:18. Joshua grew stronger and more purposeful as he served the Lord. This will also be your story! You will be called an old man with a young vision.

			Your strength will be renewed every day! You will experience a change of levels: from glory to glory! These things will begin now and continue in your life for years to come. I declare you exempted from premature and unexpected death according to Psalm 91! Instead of losing all that you have, you will be taking delivery of loads of blessings. You will enter into great expansion in the midst of your years.

			O LORD, I have heard thy speech, and was afraid: O LORD, REVIVE THY WORK IN THE MIDST OF THE YEARS, in the midst of the years make known; in wrath remember mercy.

			Habakkuk 3:2

			The Joshua generation will be old and stricken in years, but filled with the burden of God’s work. Joshua was an old man and yet he was burdened with the fact that there was much land to be possessed. The Joshua generation grew old and still had the burden of doing God’s will.

			They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing;

			Psalm 92:14

			Many ministries have metamorphosed into businesses as they got older. Some have changed into secular motivational institutions. Churches have accepted the doctrine and spirit of Sodom and Gomorrah. Ministers of the gospel who wield authority in large churches are in same marriages. Others are living in every kind of deception, duality and immorality. If the world wants to do their thing, they are entitled to carry on and they shall bear the consequences of it before God.

			A person with the spirit of Joshua and the spirit of enlargement is not destined to diminish in his brightness and light. “Arise and shine, your light has come”! (Isaiah 60:1). The Bible does not say, “Arise and shine, your light has gone.” You will never be one of those whose light diminishes as you get older.

			 You must keep on enlarging and spreading the word of God into your old age. You are ordained to increase in the level of your brightness.

			But the path of the just is as the shining light, that SHINETH MORE AND MORE unto the perfect day.

			Proverbs 4:18

			Expect God to be increasing the level of glory in your life. A change in the levels of glory in your life will be your testimony from now until your last day on earth. You will not start in glory and end in shame! You will become like Joshua who, according to scripture, was burdened even more with God’s work as an old man. You will love God more as you get older. The glory will shine even more on your face as you become an older person.

			But we all, with open face beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image FROM GLORY TO GLORY, even as by the Spirit of the Lord.

			2 Corinthians 3:18

			I declare that you shall be listed among the giants who ended well!

			Members of your family will also be listed in the army of the Lord!

			Your children and your children’s children shall be mighty in your lifetime!

			Your light will not go out!

			You are released as a blessing to the world!

			You will emerge as a giant and a super-normal blessing to many people in the world!

			Receive strength to enlarge endlessly in the way Joshua and Caleb did!

			No matter how hard and harsh the world becomes, you will be gloriously exempted from distraction and failure!

			Go in the power of this prophecy and experience something far above what others are wallowing in.





