Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible





Everything By Prayer Nothing Without Prayer





Copyright © 2019 Dag Heward-Mills





First published 2019 by Parchment House

1st Printing 2019





77Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills at:

Healing Jesus Campaign

Write to: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

Website: www.daghewardmills.org

Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

Twitter: @EvangelistDag





EBOOK ISBN: 978-1-64329-219-9





All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Contents

CHAPTER 1: Everything by Prayer

CHAPTER 2: How to Pray for the Will of God

CHAPTER 3: How to Pray for the Holy Spirit

CHAPTER 4: How to Pray Thanksgiving Prayers

CHAPTER 5: How to Pray from Your Heart

CHAPTER 6: How to Pray with Forgiveness

CHAPTER 7: How to Pray to Defeat Devils

CHAPTER 8: How to Pray Prayers of Persistence

CHAPTER 9: How to Pray with the Promises in John

CHAPTER 10: How to Pray in the Closet

CHAPTER 11: How to Pray Agreement Prayers

CHAPTER 12: How to Pray With Fasting

CHAPTER 13: How to Pray at Dawn

CHAPTER 14: How to Pray in the Night

CHAPTER 15: How to Pray with Faith

CHAPTER 16: How to Pray and Do Greater Works

CHAPTER 17: How to Pray Short Prayers

CHAPTER 18: How to Pray Long Prayers

CHAPTER 19: How to Pray in Different Places

CHAPTER 20: How to Pray Prayers of Intercession

CHAPTER 21: How to Pray Like a Priest

CHAPTER 22: How to Pray for Angels to Appear





CHAPTER 1




Everything by Prayer




Be careful for nothing; but in EVERY THING BY PRAYER and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.

Philippians 4:6

In this famous scripture, God tells us that everything should be done by prayer. In other words, nothing should be done without prayer. “Everything by prayer, nothing without prayer!”

All through the Bible, we are exhorted to do everything by prayer. There are many reasons why you must live your life praying about everything. The repeated exhortation is to pray always about everything. Do everything by prayer!

There is nothing that does not need the element of prayer. Everything you do in this life, even the smallest things, is influenced by prayer. Do not let anyone tell you that something is too insignificant to pray about.

Pray about your spiritual life! Pray about your weaknesses!

Pray about your problems. Pray about your challenges.

Pray about your sexual life. Pray about your character. Pray about your temperaments. Pray about your quarrels. Pray about your failings. Pray about your promises. Pray about your finances!

Pray about your marriage. Pray about your needs. Pray about your work. Pray for your boss. Pray for a partner. Pray for a lover. Pray for help.

Pray for grace. Pray for mercy. Pray for knowledge. Pray for humility. Pray for holiness. Pray for your children. Pray about the government. Pray about your ministry. All through the Bible, you see this repeated exhortation to pray without ceasing.

Notice these biblical phrases: Everything by prayer! Praying always! Men ought always to pray! Pray always! Pray without ceasing!

1.	Be careful for nothing; but in EVERY THING BY PRAYER and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.

Philippians 4:6

2.	PRAYING ALWAYS with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;

Ephesians 6:18

3.	And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that MEN OUGHT ALWAYS TO PRAY, and not to faint;

Luke 18:1

4.	Watch ye therefore, and PRAY ALWAYS, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.

Luke 21:36

5.	Pray without ceasing.

1 Thessalonians 5:17



Decide to pray about everything from today. Praying every day and praying about everything will change your life.

I can always tell when I meet people who do not pray much. You can tell the difference between pastors who pray and those who do not. There is an aura that you will not have when you do not pray. There is a blessing you will lack when you are prayerless. There is a supernatural element that is missing from your life when you are prayerless. There is some dryness that characterizes prayerless ministers and prayerless preachers.



Prayer is an expression of your faith. Prayer is speaking to somebody you cannot see. It is speaking to someone who never speaks back nor seems to answer immediately. To pray is to exercise great faith in the supernatural and the invisible! The supernatural feeling of God’s presence and the power of faith are always present on someone who prays a lot. These are seven reasons why everything should be done by prayer and nothing without prayer.

Seven Reasons Why You Should do Everything by Prayer

1.	Prayer brings God into every situation.

And Ahaziah fell down through a lattice in his upper chamber that was in Samaria, and was sick: and he sent messengers, and said unto them, Go, enquire of Baalzebub the god of Ekron whether I shall recover of this disease. But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishbite, Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say unto them, IS IT NOT BECAUSE THERE IS NOT A GOD IN ISRAEL, THAT YE GO TO ENQUIRE OF BAALZEBUB THE GOD OF EKRON?

2 Kings 1:2-3

Every time you acknowledge God in prayer, you involve God in your situation. Do you not want God to be involved in everything you are doing? God is offended when you do not acknowledge or involve Him. He wants you to pray to Him.

2.	Prayer brings a supernatural element into every situation.

Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and HE SHALL DIRECT THY PATHS.

Proverbs 3:5-6

Everything you do needs supernatural help if it is to succeed. There are supernatural reasons for many of the things that we are experiencing. If you acknowledge God in everything that you do, He will get involved in a mystical way. He will mysteriously guide your paths. He will work things out for you. You will see the effect of God’s involvement in all that you do.

3.	Prayer brings a blessing into every situation.

And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fishes, HE LOOKED UP TO HEAVEN, AND BLESSED, and brake the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them; and the two fishes divided he among them all.

Mark 6:41

Prayer brings God’s blessings into every situation that you are involved in. When Jesus prayed over the food, a blessing was released. Don’t you want there to be a blessing in everything you are involved with? Prayer fights the curses that are working against you in every situation. There was a curse of a lack of food in that moment. Five thousand people needed bread and fish and there simply wasn’t enough to go round. The prayer of Jesus brought in a blessing. This is what happens every time anyone prays. A blessing is released each time you pray.

And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him:

Revelation 22:3

This earth realm is full of curses. A curse is a frustration and an opposition to whatever you are doing. Prayer brings in God’s power to overturn the curse that is in the earth. The blessing that comes into your life when you pray, changes the course of everything.

4.	Prayer brings angelic involvement into every situation.

And he was withdrawn from them about a stone’s cast, and KNEELED DOWN, AND PRAYED, Saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done. And THERE APPEARED AN ANGEL UNTO HIM FROM HEAVEN, strengthening him.

Luke 22:41-43

Angels can be involved in every area of your life if you want them to be. Angels are released when prayers go up. Notice how angels appeared when Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane.

5.	Prayer brings the great promises of God into every situation in your life.

And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ASK, AND YE SHALL RECEIVE, THAT YOUR JOY MAY BE FULL.

John 16:23-24

There are great promises of prayer lined up in the word of God for you. Jesus promised many things if we pray. Every time you pray, you activate many promises that have been made.

6.	Prayer brings the mighty Holy Spirit into every situation.

And WHEN THEY HAD PRAYED, the place was shaken where they were assembled together; and THEY WERE ALL FILLED WITH THE HOLY GHOST, and they spake the word of God with boldness.

Acts 4:31

Do you not want the Holy Spirit to be involved in what you are doing? The Holy Spirit brings the power of God.

7.	Prayer destroys demonic power that is against you in every situation.

Or else how can one enter into a strong man’s house, and spoil his goods, except he first BIND THE STRONG MAN? And then he will spoil his house.

Matthew 12:29

In every situation, there are demons and demon powers that are at work. These are invisible forces that are as real as the book you are reading.

There are demons that are always working against you, whether you believe it or not.





CHAPTER 2





How to Pray for the Will of God


And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me. And he went a little further, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, BUT AS THOU WILT. And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. He went away again THE SECOND TIME, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, THY WILL BE DONE. And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were heavy. And he left them, and went away again, and PRAYED THE THIRD TIME, saying THE SAME WORDS.

Matthew 26:37-44

Jesus prayed for the will of God. Apart from His all night prayers, these are the longest prayers of Jesus we know of. Why did Jesus pray for such a long time for the will of God to happen?



Things You Should Know about Praying for the Will of God

1.	You must pray for the will of God otherwise the will of God will not happen!



Where there are human beings, you must always pray for the will of God. I believe in terms of evil, human beings are next only to devils. Much evil is done by human beings and many evil decisions are taken by human beings! All through the trial of Jesus, it was evident that things could have gone either way. Pilate could have decided to release Jesus. Pilate was a wicked man who did not care about true justice.



Like many politicians, Pontius Pilate simply wanted to maintain his political power and position. It was the mention of Caesar’s name and the threat to Pontius Pilate’s political future that made Pontius Pilate hand over an innocent man to the executioner.



All through your life, human beings will be taking decisions that will affect you. If you do not pray about it, you will not see the will of God happening in your life. The will of capricious and unreasonable men will be implemented in your life when you do not pray. Think about it! Your boss may be taking a decision about you right now! Your teacher may be taking a decision about you right now! Your husband may be taking a decision to leave you! Your wife may be taking a decision treat you in a particular way! A young man may be taking a decision to become your beloved. A young lady may be taking a decision to hunt for your life. All these decisions by these people around you can affect your life. This is why you must rise up in prayer like Jesus did.

If Jesus had not prayed the way He did, the will of God would not have happened. Joseph of Arimathea may have risen up earlier to fight for Jesus, thereby blocking the crucifixion. Crowds of people who were healed by Jesus could have been informed to come to the rescue of Jesus. The common people who were ardent followers of Jesus Christ may have risen up to fight for Jesus, just as Peter had tried to do earlier. All these things did not happen because the people simply did not take the decision to do something. People’s decisions are always affecting you one way or the other. You must rise up and pray and not leave things to chance.

It is the will of God for you to have a big church. It is the will of God for people to support you in the ministry. However, if you do not pray for the will of God to be done, people will not take decisions to join your church. People will not take decisions to support you and help you financially. Praying for the will of God is one of the most critical prayers you must pray.

2.	You must pray for the purposes of God to be done even though it is God’s purpose.



Even though you know the will of God and even though God has spoken to you, it is still important to pray about it so that it comes to pass. This is indeed a great mystery.



Jesus knew the will of God. That is why He came to Jerusalem. He said, no one takes my life from me but I lay down my life. He voluntarily and intentionally came to Jerusalem to die on a cross for the sins of the world.

He had known the will of God for a long time. At one point He said, “The hour is come for the seed to die.” Jesus knew the will of God and knew that the hour had come for Him to do it. Yet, He still had to pray for the purpose of God to be done. This makes praying for the will of God one of the most mysterious prayers ever. It seems as though the will of God will not happen unless you pray for it.

3.	You must pray repeatedly about the will of God.



Jesus prayed three times. Each time He prayed, He prayed about the same thing and used the same words. Praying for the will of God is not something that you do just once.

Jesus is the one who taught us not to pray with useless repetition.

But when ye pray, USE NOT VAIN REPETITIONS, as the heathen do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

Matthew 6:7

However, in this prayer, we see Jesus repeating the topic, “Thy will be done, Thy will be done, Thy will be done”. Why did He repeat these prayers? Jesus repeated these prayers because they were not useless repetitions but valuable, effective and meaningful repetition of prayers. These were repetitions that had an effect on God. Jesus was teaching us that repeating prayers about the will of God being done are not useless repetitions.

4.	You must pray for hours about the will of God.

	Jesus prayed for several hours for the will of God to be done. He did not pray a five-minute prayer. There are five-minute prayers! There are one-minute prayers! There are prayers we must pray for hours! Praying for the will of God is one of the longest prayers I have ever prayed. I do not think the will of God will be done in your life until you spend hours praying for it. Perhaps your life will improve greatly and change its very course when you start praying for the will of God.





CHAPTER 3




How to Pray for the Holy Spirit


There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;

Daniel 5:11

Make up your mind to pray for the Holy Spirit! Decide to pray for the seven Spirits of God. The Holy Spirit will make you stand out. You will be called up for special occasions.



When you have the Holy Spirit, you will stand out because of the light and understanding that is in you. Daniel was outstanding because of the Holy Spirit in him.



Belshazzar’s wife who did not know the Holy Spirit recognized the presence of an excellent spirit in him. She called the Holy Spirit “the spirit of the holy gods.” She realized that there was a level of light, understanding and wisdom in Daniel that could only be supernatural. It is time to believe in praying for the Holy Spirit.

Things You Should Know about Praying for the Holy Spirit

1.	You must pray for the Holy Spirit because Jesus specifically asked us to do so.

If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent? Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: HOW MUCH MORE SHALL YOUR HEAVENLY FATHER GIVE THE HOLY SPIRIT TO THEM THAT ASK HIM?

Luke 11:11-13

This is the only stand-alone topic that Jesus taught His disciples to pray about. Jesus promised to send the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, to help us. He promised to pour out His Spirit on us. And yet He still asked us to pray for the Holy Spirit. Here, we see this principle again. Even though it is the will of God and the purpose of God, it will not happen until we pray for it.

2.	You must pray for the Holy Spirit because you are a human being clothed with weakness and sin.

For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

2 Timothy 1:7

The Spirit of power, love and a sound mind are what you need. This Spirit of power will strengthen you. The Holy Spirit will make your mind work well because it is the Spirit of a sound mind.

It is difficult to find a group of human beings who are not corrupt, weak, sinful and evil. The scripture teaches that when we die, we are “…Sown in corruption; raised in corruption: sown in dishonour; raised in glory: sown in weakness; raised in power:” (1 Corinthians 15:42-43).



What a vile fleshly garment we wear as human beings! Our corruption, our failings, our temptations, our desires, our negative tendencies, our distorted temperaments, our personality disorders, our deceptions, our carnality, our pride have left us almost incapable of doing any good. The Holy Spirit is the sweet power and presence of God that transforms our nothingness into something. I cannot imagine what we would do without the power of the Holy Spirit.

3.	You must pray for the Holy Spirit so that you have Godly convictions.

But I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Helper will not come to you; but if I go, I will send Him to you. AND HE, WHEN HE COMES, WILL CONVICT THE WORLD CONCERNING SIN AND RIGHTEOUSNESS AND JUDGMENT; concerning sin, because they do not believe in Me; and concerning righteousness, because I go to the Father and you no longer see Me; and concerning judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.

John 16:7-11 (NASB)

Praying for the Holy Spirit is very important because we are convicted by His presence. One of the works of the Holy Spirit is to give you strong convictions. Convictions are beliefs and strong persuasions. Most of your Christian life is governed by the strong convictions you have. Without strong convictions you cannot do much for God.



Weak Christians are people who do not have strong convictions about God. They do not have strong convictions about serving God. They do not have strong beliefs about the importance of fellowship. Their lack of conviction is what makes them weak. One of the things the Holy Spirit does is to give you convictions.





I have strong convictions about full-time ministry. I have strong convictions about giving myself all out to Jesus. I have strong convictions about working in the ministry. I have strong convictions about debt. These strong convictions have guided me in the ministry.

Today, lots of Christians walk about claiming to know Jesus Christ. If they really had strong convictions about the things they claim to believe, this world would be different. The lack of the Holy Spirit is what leads to a lack of conviction. More prayer for the Holy Spirit will lead to more conviction.

4.	You must pray for the Holy Spirit so that you bear the fruits of the Spirit.

But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.

Galatians 5:22-23

As you receive the Holy Spirit through your prayers, love, joy, peace, gentleness will become your second nature.

The Holy Spirit comes along with fruit. Everyone will enjoy you more. Your weaknesses and deficiencies will be covered by the Spirit of God and His fruit.



The fruit of the Spirit is the result of the long-term presence of the Holy Spirit. Think about the weakness, the dishonour and the corruption that is in human beings. Through the power of the Holy Spirit, you will begin to exhibit beautiful characteristics that do not come from your earthly family, but from God Himself.



5.	You must pray for the Holy Spirit so that you have power to be a witness of Jesus Christ.

But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.

Acts 1:8

You can be a witness of Jesus Christ. A witness of Jesus Christ is someone who stands up to give a testimony that Jesus is real. Your personal testimony of how Jesus has changed you and how the power of God has transformed you is the best witness for Jesus Christ.

Many people cannot stand up and declare that they are Christians. To be a witness, you must stand up in public to declare what you have seen and what you know. You have to tell people, “Look at me. See how I have changed! See what has happened to me! Look at the difference He has made in my life! Everyone will look at you and believe in Jesus Christ. That is what happens when you are a witness. The power for radical change comes because the Holy Spirit works in your life.

6.	You must pray for the Holy Spirit so that you manifest the gifts of the Spirit.

But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal. For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit; To another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit; To another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues:

1 Corinthians 12:7-10



Pray for the Holy Spirit and you will become a powerhouse of miracles, signs and wonders. Praying for the Holy Spirit is also important because gifts start to flow in your life. The gifts of supernatural knowledge and supernatural wisdom are given through the power of the Holy Spirit.

Gifts of healing and miracles become common in your life when you have the Holy Spirit. Speaking in tongues and prophecy will flow effortlessly from your lips. Pray for the Holy Ghost and you will become a vessel for miracles, signs and wonders. It is no wonder that Jesus asked us to pray for the Holy Spirit.

7.	You must pray for the Holy Spirit so that you have increasing wisdom, understanding, knowledge and counsel.

And the spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord;



Isaiah 11:2



You must pray for all the seven spirits of God. When you pray for all the seven spirits of God, you will become like Daniel who had an excellent spirit.



Most of the wrong moves of your life have come because you lacked the wisdom to take the right decision. Most governments fail because they have become blinded and ignorant to the realities on the ground. We need knowledge, we need truth and we need reality. We need the Holy Spirit to give us counsel, understanding and truth. The Holy Spirit is also called the Spirit of truth. You will know the truth as you pray for the Holy Spirit.





CHAPTER 4





How to Pray Thanksgiving Prayers




This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, UNTHANKFUL, unholy,



2 Timothy 3:1-2



Eight Things You Should Know about Thanksgiving Prayers

1.	Prayers of thanksgiving start with having a heart full of thanksgiving. To be unthankful is to be in spiritual danger.

Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them; for God hath shewed it unto them. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse: BECAUSE THAT, WHEN THEY KNEW GOD, THEY GLORIFIED HIM NOT AS GOD, NEITHER WERE THANKFUL; but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools,



Romans 1:19-22

Unthankful people usually become perverted, twisted and corrupted. The thoughts of unthankful people tend towards darkness. You are either full of thankfulness or full of evil thoughts. Watch out for the people around you! Are they thankful or are they full of evil thoughts? Unthankful people are discontented and quickly progress into murmuring and complaining. Watch the people around you carefully. Are they thankful for little things? Do they remember to say thank you? Do they keep saying thank you? Do they say thank you just as a formality or do they mean it from their hearts?

2.	Prayers of thanksgiving protect you from the evil of the “last days”. To be unthankful is to have fallen into a “last days” evil.

This know also, that in the LAST DAYS perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, UNTHANKFUL, unholy,

2 Timothy 3:1-2

Being unthankful is an evil that will be prevalent in the last days. Being unthankful is an evil that is listed amongst other terrible sins. The list in which “being unthankful” finds itself should tell you what kind of evil it actually is.

3.	Prayers of thanksgiving catapult you into the presence of God.

ENTER INTO HIS GATES WITH THANKSGIVING, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name. For the Lord is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations.

Psalms 100:4-5

Being thankful is the way to enter into the presence of God. Saying thank you is the way to start your prayers. The scripture tells you how to enter into the presence of God.



4.	Prayers of thanksgiving must be mixed with every kind of prayer.



Be careful for nothing; but in EVERY THING BY PRAYER AND SUPPLICATION WITH THANKSGIVING let your requests be made known unto God.

Philippians 4:6

You must always say thank you as part of every prayer. Do not finish any prayer without saying “thank you”. Even in the most difficult situations, you must learn to say “thank you Lord” because that is what the Bible says.

5.	Prayers of thanksgiving must be prayed always and for all things. You must thank God not just in everything but for everything.



GIVING THANKS ALWAYS FOR ALL THINGS UNTO GOD and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;

Ephesians 5:20

6.	Prayers of thanksgiving cause the earth to yield her increase and her blessings. Prayers of thanksgiving release the power of increase that no other type of prayer does.



Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee. THEN SHALL THE EARTH YIELD HER INCREASE; and God, even our own God, shall bless us. God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.



Psalms 67:5-7

7.	Prayers of thanksgiving are very powerful in the release of multiplication miracles.



And Jesus said, make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand. AND JESUS TOOK THE LOAVES; AND WHEN HE HAD GIVEN THANKS, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. Therefore they gathered them together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten. Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, this is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world.



John 6:10-14

The miracle of feeding five thousand was performed by a prayer of thanksgiving. Prayers of thanksgiving are powerful in their effect. I once observed a man of God laying hands on people and saying “Thank you Jesus.” I was wondering what he was doing. Why was he not praying for the people but just saying thank you. When I understood the power of thanksgiving I understood that the power of thanksgiving was releasing miracles in the lives of the people. And that was why he said, “Thank you Jesus” whenever he laid his hands on them. When Jesus was confronted with the need to feed five thousand people, all He did was to say thank you to God and the miracle power of multiplication was released.



8.	Prayers of thanksgiving are prayers for the release of great and outstanding miracles.



Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God? Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. AND JESUS LIFTED UP HIS EYES, AND SAID, FATHER, I THANK THEE THAT THOU HAST HEARD ME. And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me. And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. AND HE THAT WAS DEAD CAME FORTH, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, loose him, and let him go.



John 11:40-44

The miracle of raising Lazarus from the dead was performed by a prayer of thanksgiving. When Jesus stood by the grave, all He did was to give thanks and mighty power flowed from Heaven.





CHAPTER 5




How to Pray from Your Heart




Confess to one another therefore your faults (your slips, your false steps, your offenses, your sins) and pray [also] for one another, that you may be healed and restored [to a spiritual tone of mind and heart]. The earnest (HEARTFELT, CONTINUED) PRAYER of a righteous man makes tremendous power available [dynamic in its working].



James 5:16 (AMPC)

Most of the important lessons on prayer can be learned from Jesus Himself. You can relate with a great person by learning from someone who is already close to that great person. Jesus is close to the Father. Jesus knows all about the Father. Whatever He does in relation to the Father is what we should learn from. How did Jesus talk to His Father? He prayed from His heart. He prayed His feelings out loud. He even prayed His negative thoughts to the Father. He cried and said, “O God, why have you forsaken me?” Many people do not pray from their hearts. God wants to hear your heart!



Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land unto the ninth hour. And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, MY GOD, MY GOD, WHY HAST THOU FORSAKEN ME? Some of them that stood there, when they heard that, said, This man calleth for Elias.



Matthew 27:45-47

You must tell God what you really think! If you are ever to be close to God, you must start by praying from your heart! When Jesus was in the Garden of Gethsemane, He challenged the Father. Whilst on His knees, He pointed out an amazing truth to the Father.

He said, “If you really want to, you can prevent this whole cross experience. All things are possible to you. I know you can stop this bad experience.” The Father was listening carefully as His son prayed.



Jesus knew that the Father had an infinite number of possibilities available to Him. Jesus pointed out to the Father that all things were possible to Him. He reminded the Father that He knew that He could bring salvation to the world without the cross. He pointed out to the Father that salvation would be possible without sacrificing His only son. The Father knew that what Jesus was saying was true.



This was a heartfelt prayer. Jesus concluded with the Father and said, “Whatever you decide, I will be ready to flow with it.” His Father in heaven decided to go ahead with the cross. The heartfelt prayer did not offend the Father.



And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba, FATHER, ALL THINGS ARE POSSIBLE UNTO THEE; TAKE AWAY THIS CUP FROM ME: nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt.



Mark 14:35-36

Do not think that when you pray from your heart you will offend God. God is not offended when you pray from your heart. You rather endear yourself to God when you pray from your heart. You rather irritate God when you pretend in His presence. Notice the comment Jesus made about hypocrites who pretend to pray to Him. He knows they are pretending! He knows the prayers are not real. He knows the prayers are not from their hearts. He said they would have a greater damnation for those pretentious prayers. Do not damn yourself when you pray. God does not like pretenders. Stop making up speeches and saying things you do not believe.



Which devour widows’ houses, and FOR A PRETENCE MAKE LONG PRAYERS: these shall receive greater damnation.



Mark 12:40





CHAPTER 6





How to Pray with Forgiveness




Therefore I say unto you, what things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. And WHEN YE STAND PRAYING, FORGIVE, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses.



Mark 11:24-26

Forgiveness is an important part of praying. On earth, people will keep on offending you. In terms of evil, human beings rank very highly. We, human beings, are, I believe, only second to devils, in terms of evil and wickedness. Living on earth and interacting with people will always lead to offences! There are offences with family! There are offences with church members! There are offences with spouses! There are offences with pastors! One of the important things to do whilst praying is to forgive. If you do not forgive, you will not be forgiven for your many sins. And if you are not forgiven, your obvious sins will cut you off from God.



It’s YOUR SINS THAT HAVE CUT YOU OFF FROM GOD. Because of your sins, he has turned away and will not listen anymore.



Isaiah 59:2 (NLT)

The most deadly sin therefore, is to not forgive those who offend you. Those who offend you must be forgiven whilst you pray. When you stand praying is the moment for forgiveness.



When Jesus was on the cross, He prayed to forgive the multitude that had gathered to put Him to death. He forgave the soldiers for their whips! He forgave the crowd for their shallowness and their shouts! He forgave the Jews for their wickedness! He forgave the Pharisees for their hypocrisy! He forgave Peter for deserting Him! He forgave the one who nailed Him to the wood!

He forgave Pontius Pilate for his politics and his two-facedness. He forgave Herod for his pretence. He forgave Judas for “selling” Him. He forgave those who “bought” Him. He forgave Joseph of Arimathea for not speaking up till after He was de



ad. He forgave those who laughed at Him. He forgave the one who offered Him vinegar instead of water. He forgave the soldiers for their strong beatings. He forgave the thief on the cross who mocked Him.

Human beings are evil! There is very little good in us. Jesus knew what was in man and He did not trust man.



And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. THEN SAID JESUS, FATHER, FORGIVE THEM; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots. And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God.



Luke 23:33-35

Your prayers can be hindered when you have someone that you frequently quarrel with. This is why spouses are admonished to forgive each other lest their prayers are hindered. Spouses can have serious arguments, offences and hurts between themselves. Therefore, marriage can become an obstacle to your spirituality. When you get married, your prayers may be hindered and blocked because of your frequent quarrels. Your marriage may actually bring you to the end of your relationship with God. Watch out!



Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honour unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life; THAT YOUR PRAYERS BE NOT HINDERED.



1 Peter 3:7





CHAPTER 7




How to Pray to Defeat Devils




And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, Saying, LET US ALONE; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.



Mark 1:23-24

You will notice how the demons shouted out, “Let us alone!” It is important that you do not leave demons alone! Do not let the devil be comfortable around you. Bind him! Pour fire on him! Fasten him with chains! Curse his presence! Rebuke him! Reject him! Block him! Make declarations against him. Prophesy against him!



What you may not know is that devils were here before we arrived. The same demons that challenged Jesus Christ two thousand years ago are still alive and inhabiting more and more people. These demons are the ones resisting all that you do. Every kind of stress and resistance you feel is demonic in its origins.





The Example of Jesus

Jesus was in the wilderness for forty days and nights. What did He pray about for forty days and nights? It is amazing that we never hear of any prayer topic that Jesus prayed in the wilderness. We just read of Him dealing with the devil. Jesus bound the devil in the wilderness for forty days and nights. The significant things that Jesus did in the wilderness were rebuking the devil and putting him in his place.



An important part of your prayer involves talking to the devil. Jesus spoke to the devil directly in the wilderness. Notice in the scriptures below how Jesus spoke directly to satan and demons.



BUT HE ANSWERED and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.



Matthew 4:4

JESUS SAID UNTO HIM, it is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.



Matthew 4:7

THEN SAITH JESUS UNTO HIM, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.



Matthew 4:10

But HE TURNED, AND SAID unto Peter, GET THEE BEHIND ME, SATAN: thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men.



Matthew 16:23

Jesus never left the devil alone. From the day that He began His ministry to the very end, He was dealing with the devil.



At the very beginning He dealt with him in the wilderness. On the cross, Jesus dealt the final blow to satan’s power over mankind.

All territories are marked by demons. Wherever you live or work now have residential demons. Demons behave like intelligent animals. All through the Bible demons are described as animals: serpents, frogs, lions, dragons, flies and so on.



There are scriptures that prove that demons are actually spiritual animals with a high level of intelligence and communication capabilities. You will remember that the serpent in the Garden of Eden was able to communicate with Eve. This serpent was actually the devil. There are certain movies like Jurassic Park that depict intelligent animals capable of communicating with each other. These movies are frightening indeed and show how dangerous, intelligent communicating animals are.



There are demons where you live. These intelligent communicating spiritual animals are very dangerous. They were living there before you came on the scene. In the scripture below, you see a dragon that lies in the midst of the rivers. At one point Ezekiel mentions Pharaoh, the king of Egypt then he switches to the dragon that lies in the midst of the rivers. The dragon in the midst of the rivers is the intelligent, communicating spiritual animal behind Pharaoh. That is what a demon is!



Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against all Egypt: Speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord God; Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, THE GREAT DRAGON THAT LIETH IN THE MIDST OF HIS RIVERS, which hath said, My river is mine own, and I have made it for myself. But I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy rivers to stick unto thy scales, and I will bring thee up out of the midst of thy rivers, and all the fish of thy rivers shall stick unto thy scales. And I will leave thee thrown into the wilderness, thee and all the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open fields; thou shalt not be brought together, nor gathered: I have given thee for meat to the beasts of the field and to the fowls of the heaven.



Ezekiel 29:2-5

Also, in Ezekiel, he speaks against the prince of Tyrus who is obviously a man. But then he switches to speak about the King of Tyrus who is obviously a demon spirit. The physical King of Tyrus was not in the Garden of Eden and was not a cherub. So the King of Tyrus is a spiritual and demonic power behind the Prince of Tyrus.



Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the KING OF TYRUS, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God; Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty. Thou hast been in Eden the garden of God; every precious stone was thy covering, the sardius, topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle, and gold: the workmanship of thy tabrets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created. THOU ART THE ANOINTED CHERUB that covereth; and I have set thee so: thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.



Ezekiel 28:12-14

The things that are fighting you have a demonic power behind them. That is the power you must deal with. You must be prepared to deal with entities like the king of Tyrus as well as entities like the dragon in the midst of the rivers.



Perhaps, you are dealing with the prince of your country.



Perhaps there is a tree in your yard or in your garden that houses an evil and demonic bird. Perhaps you are dealing with a dragon or a serpent in the river near your house. Perhaps there is a lake, a lagoon or a river near your house in which there is an evil spirit. Perhaps the sea behind your house is hosting an evil demonic being. Notice how the beast rose up out of the sea. The beast was living in the ocean and it came out of the water to manifest itself.



And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.



Revelation 13:1

All your prayers must include the binding of the devil. Do not forget this rule: Do not leave the devil alone! The demons shouted, “Let us alone”. That is exactly what you must not do. You must not leave them alone! You must bind them continuously! The word “bind” in the scripture below means, “to fasten with chains.”



Every time you bind the devil you fasten him with chains and you throw him into more chains. To bind the devil means “to forbid” and “to prohibit” him. Every time you bind the devil, you forbid him from manoeuvring around you. Continue to forbid the activities of intelligent animal demons around you.



Verily I say unto you, WHATSOEVER YE SHALL BIND on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.



Matthew 18:18

Every time you watch a wild life movie you can learn something about demon spirits. For instance, wild dogs have a strategy of running after their prey until the prey is tired. They can pursue an antelope for several kilometres until it drops to the ground out of pure exhaustion. Then the pack of wild dogs descends on it and consumes it. One of the strategies of demon powers fighting you is to wear you out just as wild dogs wear out antelopes. Note the scripture below.



And he shall speak great words against the most High, and SHALL WEAR OUT THE SAINTS of the most High, and think to change times and laws: and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and the dividing of time.



Daniel 7:25

Another animal to watch is the viper. Vipers simply inject a drop of venomous corruption, poison, confusion, and disloyalty into the church. After one bite, the church is never the same. Just as a human being will struggle to live after being bitten by a viper, the church struggles to live after it has experienced an attack from a spiritual viper. All forms of disloyalty, treachery, divisions and accusations in the church are demonic in origin. Confusion and disloyalty are the works of vipers and cobras. These vipers are spiritual, intelligent communicating creatures that are ready to destroy everything you have built. You must cut off their heads in your prayers. These vipers may operate through an assistant pastor or a proud church member.

You must rise up every night and fasten demonic powers with chains. You must forbid the manoeuvring, roaming and hunting demon packs around you. You must prevent demons from being comfortable around your dwelling place. You must block the activities of deadly flies bringing poison and death into your life. All works of darkness tend to oppose and resist you. This is because the devil is the opposer. Bind the opposer! Curse the accuser! Fasten the tempter! Chain the deceiver! Burn the liar! Bind the devil in the name of Jesus!

Watch out for the lion! Demon powers eat up the flesh. They bite through the flesh and lick up the flesh. It is unbelievable to see a lion literally eat an entire zebra. They devour every part and leave nothing behind. Satan is most interested in your flesh. All works and activities of your flesh are of interest to the lion. He is ready to sink his teeth into your flesh and make you his meal.

Do not allow demons to occupy your anus, your vagina, your penis, your feelings, your mouth, your tongue and your eyes. Forbid it! Block it! Fasten demonic powers with chains. Bind them in the day. Bind them at night. Prophesy against them. Pour the fire of God on them. Make declarations against the forces of wickedness arrayed against you. You are free from devils in the name of Jesus! Read this chapter again.





CHAPTER 8





How to Pray Prayers of Persistence




And he spake a parable unto them to this end, THAT MEN OUGHT ALWAYS TO PRAY, AND NOT TO FAINT; Saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. And HE WOULD NOT FOR A WHILE: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; Yet because THIS WIDOW TROUBLETH ME, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?



Luke 18:1-8

Jesus Christ encourages us to pray with persistence. He has information about how the Father operates.





Jesus Christ’s Principles of Persistence

1.	God does not fear anyone. God has no favourites and no reason to be partial towards you or anyone.

2.	Many prayers are not answered for a while. In the parable, Jesus said the judge would not answer for a while. “But afterward he said within himself, though I fear not God, nor regard man….” Do not worry if your prayers are not answered for a while. That is the pattern that Jesus said would exist.

3.	Your continual prayers trouble God and wear Him out. He said, “Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.” You may not know how much your prayers trouble God. But they do! Keep up the prayer. Open your mouth. Stand at the same place and say the same things to God. He will hear you and He will avenge you.



4.	God will execute vengeance on your enemies. Your enemies are going to experience fire because of your prayers. Your enemies can expect trouble because of the prayers that you are sending into the heavens. God is a God of vengeance. God will come with a vengeance and save you. Persistent prayers result in you being saved and vengeance being executed on your enemies.



Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompence; he will come and save you.

Isaiah 35:4

5.	You must learn how to bear long in prayers. I do not know why you have to pray for so long. But according to Jesus, there is a need to bear long in prayers. “And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? I tell you that he will avenge them speedily…” (Luke 18:7,8)

	Jesus Christ is giving us information about how prayers are transmitted and how they are answered. Bearing long is essential for getting your prayers answered.

6.	You must learn how to pray and never give up. Jesus told us this parable so that we would pray and NOT FAINT! Don’t stop praying! Keep on with the work of God! God is hearing your prayers.

7.	Persistent prayer requires a lot of faith. You require faith to pray to a God you cannot see. You require faith to pray to a God repeatedly about the same thing. We know that God heard us the first time we prayed. So why do we have to keep on praying?

	I don’t know why! But I do know that you require faith to pray in the first place and even more faith to continue praying. This is why Jesus asked, “…Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth? (Luke 18:8).





CHAPTER 9





How to Pray with the Promises in John





There are four big promises of prayer in the Book of John. Each one of them is a little different and throws some light on the prayer life of a Christian. Let us go through all these four promises of prayer. You must learn to quote God’s word back to Him. They are the only legal basis you have for praying to God.

1.	The prayer promise that it will be done!

And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, THAT WILL I DO, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.

John 14:13-14

THAT WILL I DO! What you ask is what will be done by Jesus. These are the words of Jesus. He will do certain things when you ask in His name. What do you need to be done? What has to be done? Is there anything that needs urgent attention? God will take care of it. God will do what you ask.

2.	The prayer promise for those who abide in Him.

IF YE ABIDE IN ME, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you.

John 15:7

If you abide in Him and His words abide in you, you can ask what you will and it shall be done unto you. If you have been a Christian for at least three years, I am sure that this scripture can work for you. Why is that? If you have been a Christian for three years it means you have been abiding in Christ for three years.



If you know the Bible relatively well and you understand it, then His Word is abiding in you. If you fulfil these two conditions you can ask for anything you want and it will be done for you. Believe in this great prayer promise. This is one of the greatest verses in the Bible. You ask what you will and it will be done unto you!

3.	The prayer promise for those who are fruitful.

Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, THAT YE SHOULD GO AND BRING FORTH FRUIT, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.

John 15:16

There is a great promise of answered prayer based on the condition that you will be fruitful. Jesus desperately wants you to be fruitful. He has linked the answer to your prayers to your fruitfulness. The whole purpose of your salvation is so that you will go and bear fruit. If you are going ahead to be fruitful, you can expect that this promise will be active in your life. Beware of fruitful people! Their prayers are dangerous. Fruitful people can expect their prayers to be answered quickly. Your fruitfulness is the reason for God answering your prayer. Fruitful people are God’s favourite people. They are the people of His purpose. They are the people who have been ordained by Him. He loves answering the prayers of such people. God will answer the prayers of fruitful people.

4.	The prayer promise for the fullness of joy.

And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, THAT YOUR JOY MAY BE FULL.

John 16:23-24

Once again, the promise of God is that your prayers will be answered so that you will be happy. God does want you to be happy.

Is there anything that makes you unhappy? What is there that takes your joy away? There is a promise of God so that you will have happiness. There will be answers to your prayers just so that your joy can be full.

To make you joyful is a good enough reason for God to answer your prayers. That is how important you are to God. He loves to answer your prayers just to make you happy.





CHAPTER 10




How to Pray in the Closet


And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, WHEN THOU PRAYEST, ENTER INTO THY CLOSET, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret SHALL REWARD THEE OPENLY.

Matthew 6:5-6

It is important to learn how to pray privately. There are people who only know how to pray in a group. They can only attend a prayer meeting where a lot of people are praying and shouting together. Jesus taught us to pray by going into the closet. What is a closet? The closet represents your private room and your private place. God wants to meet you all alone.



Why must you learn how to pray in private? The private prayer is the prayer that results in open rewards.



Have you ever wondered why you do not have certain public demonstrations of God’s love on your life? Public acknowledgement by God will only come out of a private and secret meeting you have had with Him.



We watched the royal wedding on television. There was great joy, great happiness and much celebration all over the world to see a prince getting married in style. However, the public celebration we all witnessed was the product of secret times and private moments that the couple had together. Without those secret times and private moments there would be no public celebration.



Do you want God to celebrate you? Do you want Him to have a big splash on you and show everyone that He loves you? Then you will need to have private moments and secret times when you speak to Him all alone.



Get into the closet and spend hours with Him alone. It is those hours that will lead to Him acknowledging you openly. Learn how to wait on God when there is no one with you. Learn how to stay in your room and pray alone for hours. Learn how to pray alone without going on your phone to talk to anyone. Learn how to pray without announcing to the world that you are doing twenty-one days of fasting and prayer. Learn how to pray quietly where no one can hear you praying. Learn how to pray when God alone sees you.



Do not be deceived when you see public announcements of people who claim to have forty days of prayer meetings. Do not be deceived when you see people who claim they are doing thirty days of all-night prayers. Public announcements of prayers are different from prayers in the closet. Prayers in the closet have no such announcements. No one sees you in the closet. Only God sees what you are doing in the closet. Only God hears you in the closet.



Prayers in the closet are the prayers that have open and public rewards. Let others do public announcements of prayer, if they want. Decide to discover for yourself the superior blessing of secret and private prayers. Do you want a public announcement of God’s approval of you or do you want a public announcement of your prayer meetings? Which one do you want?



Get into the closet! Spend time alone with God! Do not tell anyone about it! God will announce His public approval of you!





CHAPTER 11




How to Pray Agreement Prayers


Again I say unto you, That IF TWO OF YOU SHALL AGREE ON EARTH as touching any thing that they shall ask, IT SHALL BE DONE FOR THEM of my Father which is in heaven.

Matthew 18:19

Remember these words: It shall be done for them by my Father! It shall be done for them by my Father! It shall be done for them by my Father!



There is a place for united prayers. I did not set the rules for prayer. God is the One who has laid the ground rules for praying to him. One day, a man was about to be ushered in to see a world famous personality. Just before he entered the room, he was given some rules to follow.



These were the rules: “Do not shake hands with this personality. Do not try to touch him. Just stand there and speak. Do not hug him or try to hug him. Do not pat him on the back or touch him in any way.” These were important instructions that were given to this man who was going to meet this world famous personality. You see, when you are going to interact with a very important person, you must understand the rules of interaction. There is a reason for every single rule.



It is important for you to find people of like mind with whom you can pray. The reason for praying with someone is simple. There is a special promise of answered prayer if two people agree on earth. When God sees two human beings praying together and agreeing on the topic they are praying about, He is moved even more to answer the prayer. The scripture says, “It shall be done for them of my Father.”



When you find someone you can pray with, you activate another promise of God. In addition to all the other promises of prayer, you activate an additional reason why God has to answer your prayer.



Remember these words: It shall be done for them by my Father! It shall be done for them by my Father! It shall be done for them by my Father!



If you have prayed for something and you are not getting an answer, try joining forces with someone else to pray about the same thing. Notice how Jesus went for prayer meetings with His disciples.



Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder. And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy. Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me. And he went a little further, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt.



Matthew 26:36-39

He went to the Garden of Gethsemane with all His disciples. He did not go alone for the prayer meeting in the Garden of Gethsemane. He went with disciples. Even in the garden, He went a little further with Peter, James and John. Why did He do this? He needed more unity in mind and spirit to get His prayer answered.



There were things Jesus could pray about with the twelve disciples. There were things He could pray about with the three disciples, Peter, James and John. When it came to His death on the cross, He knew that no one could understand Him so He did not bother to go with anybody. He went alone! He prayed alone about the cross because there was no one He could agree with about such a thing.



Rise up and find a prayer partner! Start praying together with people of like minds. You are likely to receive an answer for everything you pray about using the agreement prayer. Praying with someone is a deeply spiritual act. Praying with “agreement partners” is a deeply spiritual act. Those you can pray such prayers with, must have the same spiritual heart and mind as you. They must have the same vision as you.





CHAPTER 12





How to Pray With Fasting





But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own bosom.

Psalms 35:13

1.	When ye fast, not if ye fast!



Moreover WHEN YE FAST, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces,that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.



Matthew 6:16

Jesus assumed fasting would be a part of our spiritual lives. He did not say, “In case you fast”. He did not say, “If you fast.” Obviously, Jesus expects us to fast. Fasting will always be a part of Christianity. Fasting will always be a part of your spiritual walk with God. Do not let anyone deceive you into thinking that you can be a good Christian without fasting. Fasting helps you to humble your soul. Fasting makes you humble! Fasting helps you to walk in humility. Without humility you cannot get near to God.



2.	Fasting must be often.



In journeyings often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by mine own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren; In weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, IN HUNGER AND THIRST, IN FASTINGS OFTEN, in cold and nakedness.



2 Corinthians 11:26-27





Apostle Paul described his spiritual life. He said he fasted often, not once in a while. Notice that being hungry and being thirsty are different from fasting. Paul was hungry and thirsty but that was different from when he was fasting. Being hungry and thirsty is a very different experience from fasting. There is hunger and thirst in fasting but fasting is a spiritual exercise in which you seek God as you deny yourself food and pleasure.



It is, however, better to fast without feeling hungry and thirsty. When you do not feel hungry during the fast, you can focus on God. When there is a lot of hunger and thirst, your mind and your heart are focused on the food and there is pressure to break the fast.

Learn how to fast without hunger and thirst. The experience of hunger and thirst is different from the experience of a wonderful fast. You will notice that Jesus Christ was not really hungry during the fast. It was after the fast that He was hungry. A good fast is not a fast when you are under pressure from hunger. You must be under pressure to seek for the Lord and not under pressure to break the fast.

Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, HE WAS AFTERWARD AN HUNGRED. And when the tempter came to him, he said, if thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.

Matthew 4:1-3

3.	Dealing with demons requires a background of fasting.

And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you. Howbeit THIS KIND GOETH NOT OUT BUT BY PRAYER AND FASTING.



Matthew 17:20-21

There are certain problems that are only solved by prayer with fasting. Fasting is an important spiritual exercise. Jesus explained that the disciples could not cast out the devils because that type of problem responded only to prayers with fasting. However, Jesus Himself did not go and fast in order to cast out the devil. He already had a background of fasting and waiting on the Lord. It is having a background of fasting and waiting on the Lord that releases the kind of power that is needed for dealing with certain demonic powers.

There are different kinds of problems. Not all problems are the same There are problems that will not go away with counselling. There are problems that will not go away with preaching. There are problems that will not go away with discussions. There are problems that will not go away by being patient! There are some problems that need prayers with fasting.

4.	Fasting is the foundation of your ministry.

But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the markets, and calling unto their fellows, and saying, we have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a devil. THE SON OF MAN CAME EATING AND DRINKING, and they say, Behold a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of her children.

Matthew 11:16-19

Jesus Christ was well known for eating and drinking. Yet He had such power available in His ministry. No one cast out devils the way He did! No one has healed the sick the way He did. Multitudes have been blessed by the power of Jesus’ ministry. So where did the power come from? Did it come from His eating and drinking lifestyle? Certainly not! When you look into the ministry of Jesus Christ, you see how He fasted and prayed at the beginning of His ministry. That era of fasting and praying carried Jesus throughout His ministry. A foundation for your ministry should be fasting and prayer. Without a foundational season of fasting and prayer you will not have a certain kind of ministry. I can remember having a season of fasting and prayer for every aspect of my ministry.



Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred. And when the tempter came to him, he said, if thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.



Matthew 4:1-3

Today, softies are being raised up in churches; people who have not waited on God for their ministries. Waiting on God with fasting and prayer is the background you need to start your ministry. Is it any wonder that demons are not cast out the way they were cast out in the time of Jesus? We now cast out sick people and people who need help. It is time to start casting out devils from the church!

5.	Disciples were asked to eat and drink on their mission.



And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it: if not, it shall turn to you again. And in the same house remain, EATING AND DRINKING SUCH THINGS AS THEY GIVE: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from house to house.



Luke 10:6-7

Unlike what you may think, Jesus commissioned His disciples to go out on a mission eating and drinking whatever they were served. One day, I travelled to a certain country to preach. When it was dinnertime, the pastor was surprised that I ate anything at all.



“We were expecting you to fast!” he exclaimed.



I asked him, “Why were you expecting me to fast?” He said, “Someone from your country came to our church and he did not eat anything till he left. Every time we took him to dinner he said he was fasting. So we thought you would do the same.” The power of God that works in your ministry does not depend on the fasting you do today. It depends on the foundation of fasting and prayer you have already done.



6.	Useless fasting must stop.



Wherefore have we fasted, say they, and thou seest not? Wherefore have we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge? BEHOLD, IN THE DAY OF YOUR FAST YE FIND PLEASURE, AND EXACT ALL YOUR LABOURS. BEHOLD, YE FAST FOR STRIFE AND DEBATE, AND TO SMITE WITH THE FIST OF WICKEDNESS: ye shall not fast as ye do this day, to make your voice to be heard on high. Is it such a fast that I have chosen? A day for a man to afflict his soul? Is it to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? Wilt thou call this a fast, and an acceptable day to the Lord? Is not this the fast that I have chosen? To loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?



Isaiah 58:3-6

Fasting can be an exercise in vain if you do it in the wrong way. Fasting is not about sentencing yourself to hunger and suffering whilst you work. He asked the question, “How can you fast and do all the work that you usually do? How can you fast and have all the pleasures that you usually have? How can you fast and have all the conflicts that you usually have?” Fasting is a time that you wait on God to achieve spiritual greatness. You can go deeper in the spirit during your fast. When Jesus fasted, He went to the wilderness and achieved great things in the spirit. He did not stay in town and do all the things that He usually did. Have you wondered why we do not have the same results that Jesus had? It is because we do not fast the way He did. Always remember that fasting is not the same as being hungry and thirsty.



Everyone can be hungry and thirsty but not everyone can fast.



7.	Fasting is presenting your body as a living sacrifice.



I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.



Romans 12:1

Fasting has an effect on your body. It is one of the ways to present your body as a living sacrifice to God. You must control your body. Apostle Paul was strict on his body. Your flesh is an unruly enemy ready to do the wrong thing any time it has a chance. Fasting has the additional benefit of keeping your flesh under control.



But I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection: lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway.

1 Corinthians 9:27





CHAPTER 13





How to Pray at Dawn




And he healed many that were sick of divers diseases, and cast out many devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, because they knew him. And in the morning, RISING UP A GREAT WHILE BEFORE DAY, he went out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed. And Simon and they that were with him followed after him.



Mark 1:34-36

Jesus prayed at dawn! “A great while before day”! You must also learn how to do the same. When the day begins in full, you will not be able to pray much. Anyone who is serious about prayer must know how to rise a great while before day and spend time with God. There are people who cannot sleep in the night. Rising a great while before day is not the same as not being able to sleep at night. It is a living practical way to serve God and to fellowship with the Father.



Seven Reasons Why You Should Pray at Dawn

1.	Praying at dawn will help you develop one of the most important habits of your life.



Praying at dawn is very repeatable. It is something you can do tomorrow and every day of the year. You can have a dawn prayer time during every season of the year. Even on the busiest days of your life a dawn prayer time with the Lord is possible.



2.	Praying at dawn will help you to read your Bible and grow in the Word.



When you pray at dawn, you will find yourself praying much more than at any other time. Because of this, you will find yourself reading your Bible much more than you ever have. Every time you pray, you can read your Bible and meditate on the Word. When you learn how to pray at dawn, you will discover that your knowledge of the word of God will greatly increase.



3.	Praying at dawn will help you to fight prayerlessness. Any Christian who has not learnt how to rise up a great while before day is most probably a prayerless believer.

4.	Praying at dawn will enable you to fight shallowness. When you have no roots, you are more prone to fall away. It is the hidden part of you that gives you strength in public. If there is no hidden prayer in your life, there will be no public strength.

5.	Praying at dawn will help you to fight your lack of spirituality. Spirituality is achieved by continuous prayer. You cannot achieve spirituality without frequent and continuous prayer times. Your dawn prayers will make you a truly spiritual person.

6.	Praying at dawn will help you to be ready for the battles of the day. No one knows when an evil day arrives. When you pray at dawn, you are ready for the battle of the day. God will lift you up and empower you to overcome whatever has targeted you for that day.

7.	Praying at dawn will help you overcome ups and downs. Most Christians experience ups and downs. Today things are good; the next day they are not good. Today you are up spiritually. The next day you are down spiritually! Praying at dawn will introduce consistency into your life.





CHAPTER 14





How to Pray in the Night





And it came to pass in those days, that HE WENT OUT INTO A MOUNTAIN TO PRAY, AND CONTINUED ALL NIGHT IN PRAYER TO GOD. And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles; Simon, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes, And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor. And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;

Luke 6:12-17

Praying in the night is important because Jesus did it. In this book we are learning the ways and patterns of Jesus Christ in prayer. Jesus is teaching us how to pray to the Father whom we have never seen. Jesus was with the Father in heaven. Jesus was in heaven listening to the prayers of human beings. Jesus knew the responses of the Father to every single prayer. Jesus knew how the Father thought. Jesus knew what would work. Jesus knew how to pray.

Jesus knew how to get prayers answered better than anybody else. Our best bet is to follow the prayer lifestyle of Jesus.

Jesus Christ prayed in the night. He prayed all night long. Why did He pray all night long?





Three Reasons Why Jesus Prayed All Night





1.	Night prayers are uninterrupted prayers. In the night, you will not be disturbed by most human activities. Most people sleep at night.

2.	Night prayers are long prayers. Night prayers can go on for much longer than prayers in the day. Many prayers during the day have to be short because there are many other things that need to be taken care of.

3.	Night prayers deal with the powers of darkness.



Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness. Therefore let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and be sober. FOR THEY THAT SLEEP SLEEP IN THE NIGHT; AND THEY THAT BE DRUNKEN ARE DRUNKEN IN THE NIGHT. But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope of salvation.



1 Thessalonians 5:5-8

There are certain evils that are practiced only at night. When you pray in the night, you can confront the evils of the night directly. A lot of demonic powers are active at night. Witches and wizards and evil powers move around in the darkness of the night. Wicked human beings roam around in the night to steal, to kill and to destroy. All these people are empowered by demons of the night.



In the animal world, many of the wicked predators move around at night. Lions, leopards, hyenas and wild dogs are all active in the night. Just like demons, they go out hunting at night to steal, to kill and to destroy the lives of their prey. Praying in the night will help you fight all these intelligent spiritual animals of the night.





Bind the Demons That Move Around At Night

1.	Demons are spiritual lions.



All through the Bible, evil spirits are described as animals. The devil is described as a lion (1 Peter 5:8). The lion produces fear when it roars in the spirit.



2.	Demons are spiritual dogs.



Demons are often described as dogs. Wild dogs hunt by chasing you until you are tired of running. They can eat a huge antelope by wearing it out. We are constantly warned in the Bible about dogs. “Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision” (Philippians 3:2). Indeed, in the book of Revelation, the dogs are unable to enter the city of God. “Outside the city are the dogs” (Revelation 22:15 NLT). Obviously, the dogs in the book of Revelation must be spiritual dogs. There are spiritual dogs and you must be careful of them.



2.	Demons are spiritual frogs.





John the revelator saw “three unclean spirits like frogs” (Revelation 16:13). Frogs make you feel uneasy and uncomfortable. The very sight of them is unpleasant. I knew of a witch doctor who made his clients swallow frogs alive. They were swallowing evil spirits for powers. The inexplicable unease and stress that you sometimes feel is caused by a demonic presence. Every frog stressing you out and making you uneasy and unhappy is bound in the name of Jesus!

And I saw THREE UNCLEAN SPIRITS LIKE FROGS come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet. For THEY ARE THE SPIRITS OF DEVILS, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.



Revelation 16:13-14





4.	Demons are spiritual birds.

Birds fly around in the air. These demons enter the mind of human beings through the airwaves. I once encountered a woman who had gone mad. She described a bird flying into her head through her ear. She told the doctors that there was a bird flying inside her head. She was vividly describing demon activity that had taken over her mind. A bird had flown in and she had gone mad. People without faith will not believe that such things are possible. Whatever is attacking your mind is bound in the name of Jesus!

And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory. And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become THE HABITATION OF DEVILS, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of EVERY UNCLEAN AND HATEFUL BIRD.

Revelation 18:1-2

5.	Demons are spiritual dragons.

Our modern day equivalent of a dragon is a crocodile or an alligator. The dragon spirit comes with surprises! Surprises, snares and sudden attacks are works of spiritual dragons. Crocodiles spring out of the water and surprise antelopes all the time. They lie still in the water, like logs, until they surprise their prey with a sudden gigantic leap into the air. Every sudden leaping and lunging attack against you is cancelled in Jesus’ name!

And THE GREAT DRAGON WAS CAST OUT, THAT OLD SERPENT, CALLED THE DEVIL, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.

Revelation 12:9

6.	Demons are described as strong men.



A strong man is a spirit that pushes pressure on you. A strong man is a bully. Strong people like to cheat the weaker ones. When a strong man holds you and squeezes you, you ran out of breath. The pressure and stress you feel in your life is caused by the presence of a strong man. The threat on your life is caused by the presence of a “strong man” spirit.



Or else how can one enter into a strong man’s house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? and then he will spoil his house.



Matthew 12:29

With these few references, we clearly see a collection of evil powers in the form of dogs, lions, frogs, birds and dragons. Most of these animals are active in the night. To arrest them, you must be ready to be awake in the night.



The fact that demons are described as animals is a revelation for us. We can understand the pattern of demon activity by understanding the activities of animals in the wild.

If you want to catch any of these animals or observe them, you would have to move out at night. I was once in a game park and was surprised to find out that the game rides were done only at night. Indeed, to see the wild animals you need to move around in the night. To catch wild animals you need to get going in the night.

It is important to stand up throughout the night and fight devils that are roaming around seeking someone to devour.

Even if you do not believe all that I have shared, learn to pray all night just because Jesus prayed all night. Jesus never explained why He prayed all night. We do not need Him to explain why He prayed all night. The fact that He prayed all night is a good enough reason for us to pray all night!





CHAPTER 15





How to Pray with Faith




And Jesus answering saith unto them, HAVE FAITH IN GOD.



For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.

Therefore I say unto you, what things soever ye desire, WHEN YE PRAY, BELIEVE THAT YE RECEIVE THEM, and ye shall have them.

And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses. But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses.

Mark 11:22-26

Four Steps To Praying with Faith





Jesus taught us how to pray the prayers of faith. His teachings contained four main points. Let us once again learn from Jesus on how to operate in faith whilst praying.

1.	Have the faith of God. Have the God kind of faith. Have faith in what God says. Don’t have faith in man. Have faith in God. Think about big things that only God can do. God will bless you and do things that are only possible through God. What is the point of asking God to do things that a human being can do?

2.	Move mountains by faith. A mountain is something not made by man. A mountain represents a problem without a human solution. A mountain represents something beyond your abilities. Through your prayers and words of faith, you will do the impossible and create what has not been seen before. You will reach heights that no one in your family ever has.

3.	When you pray, believe that you receive! You must actually believe that you have the answers in your hands when you are praying. Those who pray Prayers of faith do not wait to see anything before talking or acting like it’s done. Begin speaking great things that only God could ever do. Say the biggest words you have ever thought of. God will perform it according to His word. Prophesy greatness and it will come to pass.

4.	Forgive those who wrong you. Jesus taught that faith people must forgive all the time. Having the faith of God includes forgiving the wrongdoers of your life. Why is this? Faith prayers really yield high results therefore faith people must forgive a lot. Walking in faith prayers therefore requires you to be very forgiving. This is why Jesus combined the teaching of forgiveness with the teaching of the prayer of faith.



You believe that God is great and able to do mighty things for you. You must also believe in His character. You must also believe in His love. He has shown much graciousness to even listen to your prayers. You must therefore show much graciousness to the people who offend you.





CHAPTER 16





How to Pray and Do Greater Works


Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and GREATER WORKS than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father. And WHATSOEVER YE SHALL ASK in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.

John 14:12-14

Notice this amazing promise of prayer. Whatsoever you ask in my name I will do. This amazing promise to answer prayer is connected to doing the works of God and is connected to doing even greater works. You will not have much to pray about if you don’t do the works of God. You will not be able to pray for long if you don’t do the works of God.



I realize that I don’t have much to say to people who I don’t work with. How are you? How are the children? How is your husband? How is your wife? How is your nation? How is your job? How is the weather? I hear that so-and-so has died? And that is all. This is the conversation for someone I do not work with. Once I start working with you, I have many more things to discuss with you. How much more Almighty God? God has many things to say but He doesn’t have much to say to people He doesn’t work with.



God is interested in His own mighty plans. Your little plans and little life are not very important in the big scheme of affairs.



It would be good for you if you realize quickly that you are not the centre of the universe. God has very great plans, purposes and visions that He is pursuing. We must fit into His mighty plans. We must join His work.



Many of the prayer promises of God relate to the plans and purposes and works of almighty God.



Jesus promised that He would answer prayers that relate to His greater works. Look again at the scriptures that contain His wonderful promises. Please note that these promises do not just relate to your buying nice clothes, shoes or cars. They relate to the work of God.



Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.



John 15:16

Jesus promised to answer prayers. He promised to answer our prayers so we would bear much fruit. Much fruit is what God desires from us. Do you want your prayers to be answered? Then get into fruit bearing for the Lord. Bear much fruit and He will answer every single prayer of yours.



God is not just going to pour His rain on a barren land or on a sandy beach. God is not purposeless and aimless. There is a purpose that is purposed in all the earth. God’s purposes, plans and pursuits are what will be done in the end. It is time to line up with God’s plans and purposes. God’s plan is His greater works.



This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations. For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?



Isaiah 14:26-27





CHAPTER 17





How to Pray Short Prayers




And I say unto you, ASK, and it shall be given you; SEEK, and ye shall find; KNOCK, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.

Luke 11:9-10

Jesus taught us to pray prayers of different lengths. He prayed short prayers and He also prayed long prayers. When you love someone, you do not only have long discussions with the person. There are times you have brief interactions and there are times you have long drawn-out interactions with the person.



Unfortunately, many people think that short prayers are ineffective. That cannot be true. Some of Jesus’ most powerful prayers were short prayers. Let us learn from Jesus and pray short prayers when we have to. Believe in the short sentence you have spoken. Believe that it has been heard by God!

The Short Prayers of Jesus Christ

1.	Pray short prayers when you are in an awkward situation. Jesus was on a cross and He was in a very awkward situation but He still prayed a short prayer.

And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost.



Luke 23:46

2.	Pray short prayers to perform financial miracles.

Jesus’ greatest financial miracle was the feeding of five thousand people. He prayed a very brief prayer of thanksgiving and the finances started flowing!



And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.



John 6:11

3.	Pray short prayers for the forgiveness of the sins of your enemies.

Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots.

Luke 23:34

4.	Pray short prayers for the healing of the sick.

Jesus prayed very short prayers for the sick. Short prayers are very powerful prayers. Do not be deceived into thinking that you always need to pray long and elaborate prayers.

And looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, be opened. And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain.

Mark 7:34-35

5.	Pray short prayers for the raising of the dead.

Jesus did not spend a long time in the prayer for the raising of the dead. Indeed, brief prayers were the hallmark of His public ministry.

Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me. And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me.

John 11:41-42





CHAPTER 18





How to Pray Long Prayers





Many lazy Christians do not want to spend much time in prayer. However, Jesus Christ had long times of prayer with His Father. His long times of prayer struck His disciples and they could only ask, “What do you say when you pray?”

One day, one of my pastors saw me interacting with a group of students. I stood with them for hours after church, chatting and laughing. He was intrigued and asked me privately as we were going home, “What were you talking to the young students about?” He said, “I am amazed that you are able to talk to these students for so long. What do you tell them?”

Perhaps, that was the same kind of question that the disciples asked Jesus. “What do you talk to the Father about?” They wanted to know why He spent so much time in prayer.

If you want to follow Jesus Christ, you are going to have to learn how to pray for a long time.

1.	Pray for a long time when you are starting your ministry. This is what Jesus did. He spent six weeks in the wilderness, waiting on God and praying for His future ministry.

Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred.

Matthew 4:1-2

2.	Pray for a long time when you are taking vital decisions. This is what Jesus did. He prayed all night when He was choosing His disciples. He had come from heaven. He knew the Father’s opinion and He knew many other things. Yet, He spent all night praying just to take a quality decision. Cover all important decisions with long hours of prayer.

And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God. And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles;



		Luke 6:12-13

3.	Pray for a long time when you are ministering.

Jesus separated Himself a great while before day and prayed. He did this in the middle of an evangelistic trip. Many people stop praying when they are in the midst of a hectic schedule. You must maintain your prayer life at all times.

And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed.

Mark 1:35

4.	Pray for a long time when you are facing a crisis.



Jesus prayed for hours in the Garden of Gethsemane. His disciples fell asleep and could not keep up with Him. Praying for long hours is the mark of a person who has developed a relationship with God.

Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder. . . .

And he went a little further, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt. . .

And he left them, and went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words.

Matthew 26:36, 39, 44

Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: GO TELL MY BRETHREN THAT THEY GO INTO GALILEE, and there shall they see me. . . THEN THE ELEVEN DISCIPLES WENT AWAY INTO GALILEE, INTO A MOUNTAIN WHERE JESUS HAD APPOINTED THEM. And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, all power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.

Matthew 28:10, 16-19





CHAPTER 19





How to Pray in Different Places


Where you pray is also important. Although God is everywhere, seeing everything, He has chosen places where He will visit His people and meet with them specially. You have to accept this reality. Throughout your life, you will find God giving you the privilege of praying in different places. Through your prayers at different places, you will have different experiences with God. The art of meeting God in different physical locations was the pattern Jesus taught us.

Jesus wanted to meet His disciples in Galilee even though they were in Jerusalem. Remember that Jesus was crucified in Jerusalem. Galilee is some two hundred kilometres away from Jerusalem. Yet, Jesus wanted His disciples to travel that distance before He would appear to them in a vision. Think about that! Could He not have appeared to them in Jerusalem where they were? He told them, “You will not see me until you come to a mountain in Galilee.”

Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: GO TELL MY BRETHREN THAT THEY GO INTO GALILEE, and there shall they see me. . . THEN THE ELEVEN DISCIPLES WENT AWAY INTO GALILEE, INTO A MOUNTAIN WHERE JESUS HAD APPOINTED THEM. And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, all power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost.



Matthew 28:10, 16-19

Also, you will notice that after appearing to His disciples in Galilee, Jesus now asked them to go back to Jerusalem where they would receive the Holy Spirit. Jesus wanted them to receive the Holy Spirit in Jerusalem, not in Galilee. After His resurrection, Jesus had His disciples criss-crossing Israel for different spiritual blessings. They had to travel to Galilee for a vision and they had to go to Jerusalem to receive the Holy Spirit. All these go to prove that physical locations matter in spiritual things.



And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that THEY SHOULD NOT DEPART FROM JERUSALEM, BUT WAIT FOR THE PROMISE OF THE FATHER, which, saith he, ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence.



Acts 1:4-5

In the book of Deuteronomy, we see God telling Israel not to offer their sacrifices just anywhere. He tells them, “I have chosen certain places to bless you.” You will have great experiences when you go to the different places God has chosen for you to wait on Him.



Take heed to thyself THAT THOU OFFER NOT THY BURNT OFFERINGS IN EVERY PLACE THAT THOU SEEST: But IN THE PLACE WHICH THE LORD SHALL CHOOSE IN ONE OF THY TRIBES, there thou shalt offer thy burnt offerings, and there thou shalt do all that I command thee.



Deuteronomy 12:13-14

Places to Pray

1.	Pray in mountains because Jesus prayed in mountains.

And it came to pass in those days, THAT HE WENT OUT INTO A MOUNTAIN TO PRAY, AND CONTINUED ALL NIGHT IN PRAYER TO GOD. And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles; Simon, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew, Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes, And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor. And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;



Luke 6:12-17

And he came out, and WENT, AS HE WAS WONT, TO THE MOUNT OF OLIVES; and his disciples also followed him. And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation.

Luke 22:39-40

2.	Pray in solitary places because Jesus prayed in solitary places.

And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and DEPARTED INTO A SOLITARY PLACE, AND THERE PRAYED. And Simon and they that were with him followed after him. And when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee.

Mark 1:35-37

3.	Pray in gardens because Jesus prayed in gardens.

When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, WHERE WAS A GARDEN, into the which he entered, and his disciples. And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place: for JESUS OFTTIMES RESORTED THITHER WITH HIS DISCIPLES.

John 18:1-2

4.	Pray in wild places because Jesus prayed in the wilderness.

Then was Jesus led up OF THE SPIRIT INTO THE WILDERNESS to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred.

Matthew 4:1-2





CHAPTER 20





How to Pray Prayers of Intercession





And he saw that there was no man, AND WONDERED THAT THERE WAS NO INTERCESSOR: therefore his arm brought salvation unto him; and his righteousness, it sustained him.

Isaiah 59:16





1.	Intercession is a priority ministry of the church.





I exhort therefore, that, FIRST OF ALL, supplications, prayers, INTERCESSIONS, and giving of thanks, be made for all men; For kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.

1 Timothy 2:1-2



Intercession is a priority! There must be intercession in the church for the souls of men. First of all, there must be supplications, prayers and intercessions in every church. Intercession must go on all the time. Intercession is a spiritual intervention that blocks the work of the devil.





2.	Intercession saves lives.





And he said, Oh let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten’s sake.

Genesis 18: 32





Abraham negotiated for the lives of the Sodomites. He spoke the language God could understand. He persuaded God. Can you speak God’s language? Can you quote scriptures that God will listen to? Can you use the laws of prayer that Jesus taught in order to move the hand of God?





Can you save lives through your prayer? Your life may be spared because someone is praying for you. You must have personal intercessors. You must have intercessory groups. People must be praying for you all the time. Their prayers may be saving you from fire and from judgment.





4.	Intercession gives you victory without casualties.





So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek: and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill. And it came to pass, WHEN MOSES HELD UP HIS HAND, THAT ISRAEL PREVAILED: and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed. But Moses’ hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun.

Exodus 17:10-12





Do you want to have victory without casualties and setbacks? Sometimes, you have victory but the losses that you encounter are too costly. Through intercession, you can have victory without casualties. Through intercession you will become like Moses and have victory over the Amalekites.





5.	Intercessors are great people.





Therefore will I DIVIDE HIM A PORTION WITH THE GREAT, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sin of many, and MADE INTERCESSION FOR THE TRANSGRESSORS.

Isaiah 53:12





Making intercession is what qualified Jesus to have a portion with the great! If you become an intercessor, you will be a very great person. When you are an intercessor, you pour out your soul for people who are in sin. Through your intercessions many are saved. Where few people are saved, it is because there is little intercession.





God sees intercession as a very great thing. “I will divide him a portion with the great because he poured out his soul and made intercession for the transgressors.” Because you pour out your soul in prayers for people you do not even know, God will make you great.





CHAPTER 21





How to Pray Like a Priest





1.	Pray as a priest so you can be like Jesus.

As he saith also in another place, THOU ART A PRIEST for ever after the order of Melchisedec. Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;

Hebrews 5:6-7

You are a follower of Jesus Christ. You must follow the example of Jesus Christ. Jesus came as a priest and He prayed as a priest! If you want to follow the example of Jesus, you have to pray like a priest.

2.	Pray as a priest because Jesus has made you into a priest.

And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved us, and WASHED US FROM OUR SINS IN HIS OWN BLOOD, AND HATH MADE US KINGS AND PRIESTS UNTO GOD and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

Revelation 1:5-6

God has made us kings and priests. It means we have been made to reign as kings. As a king, you must be a good leader. As a king you must dominate in this life. God has also made you into a priest. As a priest you must offer sacrifices and prayers. To be a king is your calling! To be a priest is also your calling! It is now time for you to combine these two high-level responsibilities. The highest in the church and the highest in the world! The highest rank in the church is the priesthood and the highest rank in the world is kingship.

3.	Pray as a priest by praying all the time!

And EVERY PRIEST STANDETH DAILY MINISTERING and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins:

Hebrews 10:11

The prayers of a priest are described in the book of Hebrews. What does it mean to pray as a priest? Priests do not pray when they have a problem. Priests do not pray just to have their quiet time. Priests pray because it is their work to pray. Their whole life is spent praying and offering supplications to God. The priest stands daily, ministering and offering prayers and sacrifices. This is his whole life’s work.

4.	Pray as a priest by praying with strong cries!

As he saith also in another place, THOU ART A PRIEST for ever after the order of Melchisedec. Who in the days of his flesh, when he had OFFERED UP PRAYERS AND SUPPLICATIONS WITH STRONG CRYING and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;



Hebrews 5:6-7

A priest is no ordinary person. He knows God and he works for God. Therefore, a priest’s prayers must be with strong cries. An ordinary person may pray a weak prayer but a priest’s prayers are with strong cries. That is what it means to pray like a priest. Pray with all your strength!

Pray with strong cries!

5.	Pray as a priest by praying with tears.

As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec. Who in the days of his flesh, WHEN HE HAD OFFERED UP PRAYERS AND SUPPLICATIONS WITH strong crying and TEARS unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;

Hebrews 5:6-7

A priest must pray from his heart. You must love the people. You must feel for them! You must work from your heart. You must have tears when you pray. That is how to be like Jesus. Pray with all your heart until heaven hears your cries and sees your tears!





CHAPTER 22





How to Pray for Angels to Appear




If you are prayerful there will be lots of angels around your house. Just read the Bible and see how true this statement is. All through the Bible, we see angels making appearances. They seem to pop out of the sky at the oddest of times and in the oddest of places.



What makes angels appear? What makes them come around? It is quite clear that prayer forces the appearance of angels into our world. Prayer is the reason why there are more angels in some people’s lives than others. Let us look at the evidence presented in the word of God.

Why Angels Will Surround You When You Pray

1.	Angels appeared when the whole multitude of people prayed.

When the whole church prays you can expect angels to appear. I remember a little girl who saw angels ascending and descending when we held a large prayer meeting. Always expect angels to appear when a large multitude gathers to pray.

There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth. And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless. And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years. And it came to pass, that while he executed the priest’s office before God in the order of his course, According to the custom of the priest’s office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord. And THE WHOLE MULTITUDE OF THE PEOPLE WERE PRAYING without at the time of incense. And THERE APPEARED UNTO HIM AN ANGEL of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense.



Luke 1:5-11

2.	Angels appeared when Jesus prayed in the Garden of Gethsemane.

If Jesus prayed for three hours and the angels of the Lord appeared, you can expect that angels to appear when you pray for three hours. Why would angels not appear when you pray for three hours? There are angels standing in your room as you read this book. Be open to the ministry of angels and you will start seeing them.

And when he was at the place, he said unto them, pray that ye enter not into temptation. And he was withdrawn from them about a stone’s cast, and kneeled down, and prayed, Saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done. AND THERE APPEARED AN ANGEL UNTO HIM FROM HEAVEN, STRENGTHENING HIM.

Luke 22:40-43

3.	Angels appeared when Jesus waited on God in the wilderness.

You can expect angels to appear in your life when you wait on God. There will be angels present as you wait on the Lord. Whether you see them or not, always expect that angels are present when you wait on God.

Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred. And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple, And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone. Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them; And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me. Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.

Then the devil leaveth him, AND, BEHOLD, ANGELS CAME and ministered unto him.

Matthew 4:1-11

4.	Angels appeared when the church prayed for Peter.





If you are prayerful, there will be Angels around your house. Angels appeared when the church prayed about Peter’s arrest. The prayer meeting caused angels to appear in the prison. Prayer is a spiritual intervention. It breaks through the spirit world. Angels are in the spirit world and they are forced to manifest in response to the prayers.

Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of the church. And he killed James the brother of John with the sword. And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also. (Then were the days of unleavened bread.) And when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers to keep him; intending after Easter to bring him forth to the people.

Peter therefore was kept in prison: but PRAYER WAS MADE WITHOUT CEASING OF THE CHURCH unto God for him. And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the keepers before the door kept the prison. And, behold, THE ANGEL OF THE LORD CAME UPON HIM, and a light shined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised him up, saying, arise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands.

Acts 12:1-7

5.	Angels appeared when Daniel fasted for three weeks.

After Daniel prayed for three weeks, angels appeared to him. These angels explained that they had been dispatched as soon as Daniel started praying. Every time you start praying there are movements in the heavenlies. angels are dispatched as soon as you start praying. You must believe in these things. What is the point of being a Christian and not believing in angels?

In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealed unto Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was true, but the time appointed was long: and he understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision. IN THOSE DAYS I DANIEL WAS MOURNING THREE FULL WEEKS. I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled. And in the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river, which is Hiddekel; Then I LIFTED UP MINE EYES, AND LOOKED, AND BEHOLD A CERTAIN MAN CLOTHED IN LINEN, whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz: His body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet like in colour to polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude. . . THEN SAID HE UNTO ME, FEAR NOT, DANIEL: FOR FROM THE FIRST DAY THAT THOU DIDST SET THINE HEART TO UNDERSTAND, AND TO CHASTEN THYSELF BEFORE THY GOD, THY WORDS WERE HEARD, AND I AM COME FOR THY WORDS.

Daniel 10:1-6, 12

6.	Angels were sent when King Hezekiah and the prophet Isaiah prayed to God for help.



You can expect angels to be dispatched when you call on God for help. If angels were dispatched for King Hezekiah, how much more for a child of God.

And they spake against the God of Jerusalem, as against the gods of the people of the earth, which were the work of the hands of man. And for this cause HEZEKIAH THE KING, AND THE PROPHET ISAIAH THE SON OF AMOZ, PRAYED AND CRIED TO HEAVEN. And THE LORD SENT AN ANGEL, WHICH CUT OFF ALL THE MIGHTY MEN OF VALOUR, and the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when he was come into the house of his god, they that came forth of his own bowels slew him there with the sword.

2 Chronicles 32:19-21

7.	The Angel of the Lord appeared to Moses when he turned aside to the burning bush.



God will cause angels to appear to you when you turn aside to give attention to God. Angels will appear to you when you have time for God. As soon as Moses turned to look at the fire of God, the angel appeared to him. Expect angels to appear in your life and ministry.

Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest of Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And THE ANGEL OF THE LORD APPEARED UNTO HIM IN A FLAME OF FIRE out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.

Exodus 3:1-2

Conclusion

Give yourself to prayer. Everything by prayer! Nothing without prayer! Read this book again and again. It is an anointed book. Your life and ministry will be transformed as you give yourself to deeper times of prayer.





