		 			Unless otherwise stated, all Scripture quotations are taken from the King James Version of the Bible.

			JUDAS

			WHO IS HE?

			Copyright © 2024 Dag Heward-Mills

			First published 2024 by Parchment House

			77Find out more about Dag Heward-Mills at:

			Healing Jesus Campaign

			Email: evangelist@daghewardmills.org

			Website: www.daghewardmills.org

			Facebook: Dag Heward-Mills

			Twitter: @EvangelistDag

			ISBN : 979-8-89606-700-9

			All rights reserved under international copyright law. Written permission must be secured from the publisher to use or reproduce any part of this book.





Table of Contents

CHAPTER 1: Judas is Someone Who Should Not Have Been Born

CHAPTER 2: Judas Was a Friend

CHAPTER 3: Judas is a Son

CHAPTER 4: Judas is a Devil

CHAPTER 5: Judas is Someone Who Will Turn

CHAPTER 6: Judas is Someone Who Will Leave

CHAPTER 7: Judas is after Money

CHAPTER 8: Judas is Someone Who Pretends

CHAPTER 9: Judas is Someone Who Forgets

CHAPTER 10: Judas is Against the Honour

CHAPTER 11: Judas is Someone Who is Ignorant

CHAPTER 12: Judas is a Betrayer

CHAPTER 13: Judas Will be Replaced

CHAPTER 14: Judas Will Die the Death of the Wicked





A king who is loyal and true will keep his power. Loyalty will keep his kingdom strong.

			Proverbs 20:28 (ERV)





CHAPTER 1




Judas is Someone Who Should Not Have Been Born




The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! IT HAD BEEN GOOD FOR THAT MAN IF HE HAD NOT BEEN BORN.

Matthew 26:24



		 			Jesus met many evil people in His lifetime. He met the adulterous woman who was caught in the very act. He met the woman of Samaria who had had five husbands. He encountered thieves like Zacchaeus. He encountered two robbers on the cross. He encountered wicked soldiers who whipped Him and punished Him for nothing. Yet He never said to any of them, “It would have been better that you were not born.” According to this statement, Judas was more evil than all the murderers, liars, adulterers, and thieves Jesus had encountered in His ministry. Jesus never said that these people should not have been born.

			In other words, Judas was the worst person that He had met in His entire life and ministry. Jesus wished for Judas that he had never come into this world because he was the worst kind of person to have ever lived. In other words, any other kind of evil was more acceptable than the evil of Judas Iscariot. Judas Iscariot was the most evil person that Jesus had encountered on earth! In other words, being a treacherous betrayer is the worst kind of evil you can ever engage in. According to Jesus, being a disloyal and ungrateful assistant is the worst kind of wickedness, and again, according to Jesus, being a betrayer is the worst thing a person can be.

			Why did Jesus say, “It would have been better if Judas were not born.”? Why did Jesus imply that it would have been better if Judas’ mother had had an abortion and bled him away?

			Jesus called Judas a son of perdition. A son of perdition is a son of ruin and a son of destruction. Judas was a son that went to hell! Judas is the son that was destroyed for eternity! It would have been better if he was not born! It would have been better if Jesus had never met Judas.

			While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but THE SON OF PERDITION; that the scripture might be fulfilled.

			John 17:12

			Judas will give you nightmares. He is the worst kind of person you could ever appoint to be part of your ministry team. He is the son of perdition! The son of destruction! Judas will end up being the worst character you ever meet in your life. Judas will be someone you would wish you had never met.

			Jesus said, it would have been better for Judas to never have been born. Why is this?

			There are many things that a Judas does that make him the worst experience ever.

			Fifteen Treacherous Things You Will Experience When You Meet a Judas

			1.	A Judas will deliver or expose you to an enemy.

			2.	A Judas will give you away to the enemy.

			3.	A Judas will turn against you suddenly.

			4.	A Judas will leave you.

			5.	A Judas is unfaithful in guarding or maintaining a trust given to him.

			6.	A Judas will disappoint your hopes and expectations and shatter your heart.

			7.	A Judas will give away information in violation of your trust for him.

			8.	A Judas will reveal unconsciously or consciously something you would prefer to conceal.

			9.	A Judas will deceive, misguide and mislead many people.

			10.	A Judas will pretend for a long time and live a dual life.

			11.	A Judas will deceive everyone.

			12.	A Judas will do the unthinkable, the unspeakable and the unimaginable.

			13.	A Judas will prove himself to be undependable.

			14.	A Judas will abandon and forsake you.

			15.	A Judas is someone whose activities will lead to your embarrassment and humiliation.

			Jesus Christ experienced all these things because He appointed Judas as His trusted accountant. Judas exposed Jesus to the enemy. Judas gave Him away to the enemy! Judas was unfaithful in maintaining the trust that was given to him by Jesus.Judas disappointed the hopes and expectations that Jesus had for him.

			Judas revealed where Jesus was, which is something Jesus would have preferred to conceal. Judas misguided the rest of the disciples into thinking he was a faithful, hardworking accountant. Judas pretended for a long time, deceiving the whole world and pretending to be something that he was not. Judas did the unthinkable, the unspeakable and the unimaginable. Judas abandoned Jesus. Judas turned against Jesus. Judas proved to everyone that he was not dependable.

			In order for you to follow Jesus ultimately, God is going to allow you to encounter somebody who will be a “Judas” to you. This person will expose you to the enemy. This pastor will give you away to the enemy. This person will be unfaithful in maintaining the trust that you gave him.

			The Judas who is coming into your life will be a disappointment in ministry. He will be a source of disappointment, discouragement and disillusionment.

			When Judas comes into your life, he will seek to embarrass and humiliate you. Judas will expose you and reveal things that you would have preferred to conceal. They may not necessarily be evil things but they may be things that are exposed to embarrass you or humiliate you.

			Judas will mislead you and make you think that he is a faithful, hardworking person.

			The Judas of your life and ministry will make everyone think that he is something that he is not.

			Expect it! Judas will do the unthinkable, the unspeakable and the unimaginable!

			You will never forget Judas when you encounter him. The world has not forgotten what Judas did to Jesus Christ. That is why no one names his child “Judas”. Judas proved to everyone that he was a horror.

			Expect Judas! He is coming soon! Judas abandoned Jesus! Judas turned against Jesus! Expect some people to turn against you!

			While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but THE SON OF PERDITION; that the scripture might be fulfilled.

			John 17:12





CHAPTER 2




Judas Was a Friend




And while he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and elders of the people. Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he: hold him fast. And forthwith he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, master; and kissed him. And JESUS SAID UNTO HIM, FRIEND, WHEREFORE ART THOU COME? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus, and took him.

Matthew 26:47-50



		 			To qualify to be Judas Iscariot, you must be a friend. Judas Iscariot was a real friend to Jesus Christ. When Jesus saw him in Gethsemane, He said to him, “Friend, what’s happening? Where are you coming from?”.

			To qualify to be Judas Iscariot, you must be close to Jesus. To become the Judas of a church or ministry, you must be close to the leadership or high up in the leadership. A rebellious person who is not close or high up in the ministry will not qualify to be a real Judas. If you are looking to see who could become Judas, you must look at your inner circle. You must look at your friends again. I am sorry to tell you that the person who will become Judas Iscariot is a hair’s breadth away. He is close to you and he is one of your friends!

			At daybreak HE called together all of his disciples and CHOSE TWELVE OF THEM TO BE APOSTLES. Here are their names: Simon (whom he named Peter), Andrew (Peter’s brother), James, John, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James (son of Alphaeus), Simon (who was called the zealot), Judas (son of James), JUDAS ISCARIOT (WHO LATER BETRAYED HIM).

			Luke 6:13-16 NLT

			Please note how close Judas was to Jesus. Please note how high up Judas was in the hierarchy of Jesus’ ministry. Judas was one of the chosen ones. Judas was a close member of the team. Judas was a specially chosen person. Judas was one of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. Judas was more trusted than all the other disciples because the finances were under his control. Indeed, he qualified to be called “my own familiar friend”.

			Yea, MINE OWN FAMILIAR FRIEND, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.

			Psalm 41:9 KJV

			Judas, the Close Friend

			1.	Judas was a close friend and associate to Jesus because he was chosen to be ONE OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES OF THE LAMB. Judas was picked out of thousands of people.

			And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, And to have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out devils: And Simon he surnamed Peter; And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and he surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder: And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite, And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went into an house.

			Mark 3:14-19

			2.	Judas was a close friend and associate to Jesus because HE ALONE WAS IN CHARGE OF THE FINANCES.

			He didn’t say this because he cared about the poor. He said it because he was a thief. Judas was in charge of the money bag. He used to help himself to what was in it.

			John 12:6 NIRV

			3.	Judas was a close friend and associate to Jesus because he was one of the twelve people who were invited to the last supper.

			Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. AND SUPPER BEING ENDED, THE DEVIL HAVING NOW PUT INTO THE HEART OF JUDAS ISCARIOT, SIMON’S SON, TO BETRAY HIM;

			John 13:1-2

			4.	Judas was a close friend and associate to Jesus because at the last supper JESUS FED HIM PERSONALLY WITH BREAD.

			JESUS ANSWERED, HE IT IS, TO WHOM I SHALL GIVE A SOP, when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. And after the sop satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest, do quickly.

			John 13:26-27

			5.	Judas was a close friend and associate to Jesus because JUDAS REMAINED FAITHFUL AND STAYED WITH JESUS WHEN EVERYONE DESERTED HIM.

			And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me, except it were given unto him of my Father. From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away? THEN SIMON PETER ANSWERED HIM, LORD, TO WHOM SHALL WE GO? THOU HAST THE WORDS OF ETERNAL LIFE. …

			Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?

			John 6:65-68,70

			6.	Judas was a close friend to Jesus because he STAYED WITH JESUS THROUGHOUT ALL HIS TEMPTATIONS.

			YE ARE THEY WHICH HAVE CONTINUED WITH ME IN MY TEMPTATIONS. And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me; That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

			Luke 22:28-30

			7.	Judas was close to Jesus because Jesus had planned to write Judas’ name in the foundations of the city of Jerusalem.

			And had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel: On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south three gates; and on the west three gates. And the wall of the city had TWELVE FOUNDATIONS, AND IN THEM THE NAMES OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES OF THE LAMB.

			Revelation 21:12-14

			8.	Judas was close to Jesus because Jesus had planned to reward him with a special mansion in heaven.

			In my Father’s house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.

			John 14:2-3





CHAPTER 3




Judas is a Son




While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but the SON OF PERDITION; that the scripture might be fulfilled.



John 17:12



		 			1.	Judas was a son.

			Judas was more than a follower of Jesus Christ. He was a son! There are people who think that Judas was just an employee. Many people think that Judas was a person who was just hanging around. Judas was more than a servant. He was more than an employee. Judas was more than a follower. Judas was more than a disciple. Judas was a son! The person who will become Judas in your ministry is someone who is a son to you.

			2.	Judas was a son of perdition.

			Judas was a special kind of son. He was a son of perdition! What on earth is a son of perdition?

			A son of perdition is a son of utter destruction and ruin.

			A son of perdition is a son of Abaddon.

			A son of perdition is a son of Gehenna.

			A son of perdition is a son of Hades.

			A son of perdition is a son of the abyss.

			A son of perdition is a son of the bottomless pit.

			A son of perdition is a son of condemnation.

			A son of perdition is a son of damnation.

			A son of perdition is the son of the lower world.

			A son of perdition is the son of everlasting fire.

			A son of perdition is a son of punishment.

			A son of perdition is a son who brings devastation.

			Judas Iscariot was a son to the Lord Jesus, just as the other disciples were. However, he was a son of perdition! Judas Iscariot was the son who was sentenced to perish in the infernal regions and the lower world. Judas Iscariot is the son who went to hell and to the underworld. Judas is the person who descended into fire and brimstone.

				Judas’ activities led to the embarrassment and humiliation of Jesus Christ.

				Judas forsook Jesus Christ, abandoned Him and turned against Him.

				Judas Iscariot is the son who organised people to capture his father, the Lord Jesus Christ.

				Judas is the person who caused the death of Jesus Christ.

				Judas is the person who organised the brutal killing of the Son of God.

				Judas Iscariot is the person who caused the death of Jesus Christ at the age of thirty-three.

				Judas Iscariot is the son who did the unthinkable and the unspeakable!

				Judas Iscariot is the son who was trusted and ended up doing the unimaginable.

				Judas exposed Jesus Christ to the enemy. Judas turned against Jesus Christ.

				Judas was a disappointment.

				Judas was unfaithful in guarding the trust that was given to him.

				Judas was a deceiver.

				Judas was someone who misled and misguided people.

				Judas proved that he was undependable and wicked.

			Which kind of son will you be? Will you become a son of perdition? Make sure you are not a son of perdition!

			3.	Judas is a son with a mocking eye.

			The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.

			Proverbs 30:17

			A son of perdition is a son of the abyss. A son of perdition is a son of damnation, a cursed child.

			A son of perdition has a mocking eye. He sees his father as someone who is expiring. A son of perdition sees his father as someone who is becoming irrelevant. A son of perdition is someone who looks at his father and hopes that he will die.

			Jesus was not becoming irrelevant. Neither was He becoming powerless. Many fathers are seen as something that has an expiry date on it.

			Many fathers are seen as someone who is outmoded or irrelevant. But a father never becomes irrelevant. Actually, fathers become more relevant as time goes by. If your mind is open and you have a humble spirit you will recognize that a father is neither outmoded nor irrelevant.

			Many of the blessings spoken in the Bible were given by fathers in the very last hours of their lives. Those words which were spoken by old departing fathers have affected generations of people.

			Isaac prophesied over his children in his last days. Obviously, he had not become irrelevant to the lives of his children. If he had been irrelevant, what he said would not have come to pass.

			4.	A Judas is a son who cannot see far.

			The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.

			Proverbs 30:17

			A Judas is a mocking son whose eyes have been plucked out by the ravens of the valley. Therefore, a Judas is someone who cannot see far. A Judas is a son of perdition whose eyes have been eaten by young eagles. A Judas is someone who is blind.

			There are many people who feel that they have received all the teachings that their father has to give. I have met many people who say within themselves, “I know what he teaches. I know what he has to say. I know what he does.”

			You may ask, “How do I know?” It is the easiest thing in the world to perceive when people think they know you and know all about you.

			The devil said to Jesus, “I know thee who thou art...”

			And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out, Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I KNOW THEE WHO THOU ART, the Holy One of God.

			Mark 1:23-24

			Demons always want to claim knowledge. I know you. I know everything about you. I know all about you. I can talk about you. I can slander you. I can reveal your secrets. I can tell everyone things that you do not want them to know. I know thee, who thou art!

			I know thee! I know all about you! I know everything! I know what you will do! I know how you will react. It is this demonic way of thinking that makes ignorant, short-sighted sons of perdition think they can take on a father and destroy him.

			It is this line of demonic thought that inspires sons to leave their fathers unceremoniously.

			It is this line of demonic thought that inspires sons to attack their fathers.

			I often notice pastors who think they know all about me. I smile to myself as they walk away in their ignorance. Judas thought he knew all about Jesus. Judas thought he knew Jesus’ secrets. Judas thought he could say things to the Pharisees that would hurt Jesus Christ.

			5.	A Judas is a son who will miss the latter blessings.

			Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen.

			Matthew 28:19-20

			Judas missed the latter blessings. Judas missed the blessings of “I am with you always, even unto the end of the world.” Judas missed the blessings of the greatest commission ever given to mankind.

			Sometimes a father gives a portion away but keeps back some things which he intends to give at the very end. How immature and narrow-minded you show yourself to be when you think you have walked away with every bit of knowledge and wisdom your father has.

			Indeed, a Judas, has a limited understanding of the things he will get from his father. Judas Iscariot walked away from Jesus Christ and abandoned Him, thinking that he had gotten all that he could ever get from Jesus.

			Some children see the relationship with their fathers in terms of money they can receive from him. Because of this, they do not benefit from the true blessings of their father.

			Some children look at their parents as people to pay their school fees. Beyond school fees they do not expect or want anything else from their fathers.

			There are other children who see their parents as people who will give them an inheritance. They are interested in the inheritance, seeing it as the only reason to stay connected to their father. Some children even want their parents to die so they can acquire what their parents have. Because of this attitude, they lose out on many of the blessings of a father.

			Isaac gave blessings to his sons at the very end of his life which he did not bother to give earlier.

			And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I. And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my death: Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison; And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.

			Genesis 27:1-4

			Jacob gave blessings to his sons at the very end of his life.

			And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days. Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken unto Israel your father… And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.

			Genesis 49:1-2, 33

			Judas is someone who misses the final blessings which are destined to come at the end. Judas is a son of the inferno, a son of damnation, a son who misses the blessing.

			How truly myopic Judas was when he thought his father’s usefulness was limited to three years of ministry. What did Judas do with his training? Did he prosper with the thirty pieces of silver? Did he become a successful man with those thirty pieces of silver? Did Judas’ life change when he got those thirty pieces of silver?

			Certainly not! He became poorer and lost everything even though he actually received the thirty pieces of silver. Obviously, there were many things that Judas did not know about. Those who are ignorant! Those who are dangerous sons! Those who are sons of perdition!

			A son of perdition is a son of utter destruction and ruin. A son of perdition is a son of Abaddon. A son of perdition is a son of Gehenna.

			 A son of perdition is a son of Hades. A son of perdition is a son of the abyss. A son of perdition is a son of the bottomless pit.

			A son of perdition is a son of condemnation. A son of perdition is a son of damnation. A son of perdition is the son of the lower world. A son of perdition is a son of everlasting fire. A son of perdition is a son of devastation.





CHAPTER 4




Judas is a Devil




Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, AND ONE OF YOU IS A DEVIL? He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve.

John 6:70-71



		 			What Does It Mean to Have a Devil as a Disciple?

			1.	Lucifer introduced conflict to heaven. A devil (Judas) will introduce conflict into your ministry.

			2.	Lucifer started the first quarrel ever in heaven. A devil (Judas) will introduce quarrels and unhappiness into your church.

			3.	Lucifer misled his fellow angels. A devil (Judas) will mislead colleagues and other elders in your ministry.

			4.	Lucifer is a liar. The devil (Judas) will introduce lies and deception into your ministry.

			5.	Lucifer introduced the idea of independence and separatism from God. A devil (Judas) will introduce separatism and independence into your ministry.

			6.	Lucifer introduced temptations, tricks, traps and deceptions into heaven. A devil (Judas) will introduce temptations and traps into your ministry.

			7.	Lucifer introduced accusations into heaven. A devil (Judas) will introduce accusations into your ministry.

			Jesus referred to Judas as a devil. He did not say that Judas was being influenced by the devil. He said Judas was a devil. He said “Have I not chosen you, and one of you is a devil?”. If you allow a devil to operate freely in your life and ministry, surely, you are going to have all the problems listed above. Allowing a disloyal associate to operate freely in the church is the same as allowing a devil to do what he wants in the church.

			Can you imagine having a black mamba in the living room of your house? Would you just allow it to continue to live there? Would you not treat it as a killer? If you found a black mamba in your house, would you just leave it alone? Wouldn’t you treat it as something very dangerous to your life? Would you not treat it as something that brings death? Would you not do everything to get it out of your life? Would you not try to kill it? I believe a snake must be treated as a source of death and not like a pet. A venomous snake is not a pet! A gaboon viper does not deserve any kindness and it knows that it will not receive any kindness from you. That is why snakes hide all the time!

			Jesus Christ considered disloyal Judas as someone very dangerous. He called him a devil! This is how you must deal with disloyal people who turn against you and betray you. All pastors who have a light-hearted attitude towards disloyalty live to regret it.

			If Jesus Christ dealt with somebody as a devil, why do you consider yourself to be wiser? It is your great mistake to deal with disloyalty as though it were something trivial. Your church cannot grow because you have allowed a black mamba to roam around freely. You are treating the black mamba as a pet instead of treating him as a dangerous enemy! You are treating your “black mamba associate” as a pet instead of treating him as a source of death and destruction!

			Students, assistant pastors and associates can turn into diabolos (a devil) and behave just like the devil. Jesus called his own trusted accountant a diabolos. Judas Iscariot is referred to as a diabolos. Allowing a disloyal traitor to function around you can only be likened to allowing a real cobra to live and to roam freely in your house.

			Do not allow a disloyal Judas to be near you. Do not allow a black mamba to exist among your pastoral staff. Identify them and deal with them swiftly.





CHAPTER 5




Judas is Someone Who Will Turn




Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter….When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake. Now there was leaning on Jesus’ bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved. Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask who it should be of whom he spake. He then lying on Jesus’ breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it? Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon. And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest, do quickly.

John 13:7, 21-27



		 			Expect Judas to turn against you! Judas will turn suddenly! Judas will be good for many years. Judas was good with Jesus for all the years of Jesus’ ministry. Then he turned and had a change of mind. Judas turned and became the complete opposite of what he used to be! Judas had a change of heart. Judas had a change, deep in the core of his being. Judas was now a different person. The spirit of the devil turns a good person into a monster and a betrayer.

			And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon’s son, to betray him;

			John 13:2

			1.	JUDAS IS SOMEONE WHO HAS TURNED INTO THE EXACT OPPOSITE OF WHAT HE USED TO BE.

			And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss him. But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss? When they which were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword? And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.

			Luke 22:47-50

			Judas will be a nice team member but then he will turn against you. Judas is a horrible team member who introduces betrayal, conflict, rebellion, confusion and hatred into the team.

			2.	JUDAS IS SOMEONE WHO HAS TURNED INTO A BETRAYER

			And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss him. But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss? When they which were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword? And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.

			Luke 22:47-50

			Judas will be a nice family member but then he will turn against you. Judas is a horrible family member who introduces betrayal, conflict, rebellion, confusion and hatred into the family. King David’s family was changed forever when his son suddenly turned against him and tried to overthrow him and kill him. Absalom had the spirit of Judas and suddenly turned against his father. There are families that are broken up because Judas entered into their midst and introduced another spirit into the family.

			But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then ye shall say, Absalom reigneth in Hebron. And with Absalom went two hundred men out of Jerusalem, that were called; and they went in their simplicity, and they knew not any thing. And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David’s counsellor, from his city, even from Giloh, while he offered sacrifices. And the conspiracy was strong; for the people increased continually with Absalom. And there came a messenger to David, saying, The hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom.

			2 Samuel 15:10-13

			3.	JUDAS IS SOMEONE WHO HAS TURNED INTO A MONSTER

			There be three things which go well, yea, four are comely in going: A lion which is strongest among beasts, and turneth not away for any; A greyhound; an he goat also; and A KING, AGAINST WHOM THERE IS NO RISING UP.

			Proverbs 30:29-31

			THOU ALSO HAST DELIVERED ME FROM THE STRIVINGS OF MY PEOPLE, thou hast kept me to be head of the heathen: a people which I knew not shall serve me.

			2 Samuel 22:44

			It is a monster who introduces betrayal in the headquarters of the government. Judas is a monster who does the unthinkable and the unimaginable.

			Judas is the monster who fights leadership. Often, Judas will claim to be fighting for the underdog.

			Judas always seems to understand the underdog and sides with those who are fighting the leadership. Judas often claims to support the lower class in the name of fighting for justice.

			Many of such people are actually Judases disguised as saints. The spirit of Judas can be found in the king’s palace where people plot against the king. The spirit of Judas is also found amongst murmurers and men who have secret meetings and discussions continuously.





CHAPTER 6




Judas is Someone Who Will Leave




Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and falling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out. And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as that field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say, The field of blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation be desolate, and let no man dwell therein: and his bishoprick let another take.

Acts 1:18-20



		 			Oh the tragedy of people becoming modern-day Judases! Much pain and suffering are released when one person moves out of his position and becomes a “Judas”.

			Perhaps, the greatest tragedy is the waste of life and ministry that is caused by people leaving their position. Judas will waste his money, his life, his giftings and his calling. Judas will live in isolation, fruitlessness and emptiness. A Judas never bears the fruit he was supposed to bear. A Judas rarely repents! He just vanishes and disappears into oblivion. A Judas never bears the fruit he could have borne by being faithful and staying where he belonged.

			Unfortunately, many of these Judas characters stay in rebellion and never actually repent. Often, Judas does not relate his problems to the fact that he should never have left his place.

			1.	JUDAS IS SOMEONE WHO WILL LEAVE HIS POSITION

			Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus. For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this ministry. Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and falling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out. And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as that field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say, The field of blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms, LET HIS HABITATION BE DESOLATE, AND LET NO MAN DWELL THEREIN: AND HIS BISHOPRICK LET ANOTHER TAKE.

			Acts 1:16-20

			If God has not called you to be on your own, do not make the mistake of moving out on your own. If you make this mistake, you will be forced to re-apply for a lower position. Most high positions belong to people who have stayed faithful for many years. Satan’s dream is to bring you down. The urge to leave your God-given position is a demonic desire that comes from demon spirits seeking your downfall and disgrace.

			As I write this book, I can think of so many people who exemplify this point. Their lives today are a phantom of what they would have been if they had only stayed in their positions. Judas became a news story. Judas made the headlines as a victim of suicide. What a tragedy! What a completely different destiny Judas had just because he left his place as one of the trusted disciples of Jesus Christ.

			The Famous Worship Leader

			One day, I put on the television and saw a famous Christian singer whom I had not seen or heard of for many years. He had produced several praise and worship albums which contained classic songs that had been sung and are still sang in our churches. Because I recognised this singer, I decided to listen to the interview. To my amazement, I discovered that this singer had fallen prey to the error of leaving his God-given position.

			The singer described how he had become one of the most prominent worship leaders of all time. At the height of his fame in the ministry, he decided to leave his position. He had received invitations from a rich country offering him glorious jobs in other churches. This famous singer narrated how he believed those offers and left his position as the most senior worship leader of this very large church and followed the offers of greater glory. He narrated a pathetic story of how he had lost everything he owned.

			He explained that when he got to this rich country the offers for employment did not work out as he thought. Most of the promises he had received did not materialise. He was forced to leave the new ministry and launch out on his own. He continued his narration, explaining how his ministry had descended into the darkest hole of his life. He had tried one thing after another with little success.

			He confessed on television that he had made one of the greatest mistakes of his life in leaving that church where he was the number one worship leader. He described how he had experienced the loss of ministry, the loss of visibility and a lack of all things, including the lack of a basic job. This man had tried to be the “head of an ant” when he would have been better off as the “leg of an elephant.”

			The tragedy of Judas is to leave your God-given position and to follow illusions!

			One day, I preached in the church where this man had been a worship leader. As I sat on the front row getting ready to preach, I stared at the lady leading the worship and couldn’t help remembering the once-famous worship leader. His position had now been filled with people who did not have half of his gift. O Judas! What a waste of talent! What a waste of a God-given position.

			What can cause a fruitful and successful minister to become a hustling, struggling rebel? The spirit of Judas! Moving out of your God-given position and wasting the opportunities that would have come to you because of your position is a clear manifestation of the spirit of Judas. Do you want to become the next Judas? Certainly not!

			2.	JUDAS IS SOMEONE WHO WILL WALK INTO DESOLATION

			Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve. And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: BUT WOE UNTO THAT MAN BY WHOM THE SON OF MAN IS BETRAYED! it had been good for that man if he had not been born. Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said.

			Matthew 26:20-25

			The father of the prodigal son explained to the older brother, “All that I have is for you. I am only having this party to celebrate the return of your brother. In reality he has nothing and you have everything.”

			Did you say nothing? Is it true that the returning son had nothing? Yes, nothing means nothing. Having nothing, being nothing and becoming nothing is one of the tragedies of becoming a Judas. Judas is someone who walks into desolation.

			Judas Wives

			I have encountered a number of ministers of the gospel whose wives turned around and betrayed their husbands. I personally know a number of pastors’ wives who divorced their husbands despite their husbands’ pleas for them not to leave and walked straight into desolation. They were not faithful to their calling and covenant to submit themselves to their husbands all the days of their lives. One wife said to her husband, “You know that I can destroy you.” Today, each and every single one of these wives is begging for money and living off the handouts and compassion of others.

			 I know a number of divorced pastors’ wives who have tried starting churches on their own but the churches ended up closing down after a few months. One pastor said to me, ‘My former wife is struggling to live so I support her and send her money every month through a friend of mine. He added, “She does not even know that I am the one sending the money to her.”

			Why do these prominent women do this to themselves? There was no need to leave! There was no need to fight their husbands in the public domain! There was no need to attempt to start churches on their own.

			3.	JUDAS IS SOMEONE WHO WILL LEAVE IMPORTANT RELATIONSHIPS

			Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve. And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: BUT WOE UNTO THAT MAN BY WHOM THE SON OF MAN IS BETRAYED! it had been good for that man if he had not been born. Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said.

			Matthew 26:20-25

			When Jesus said it would have been better that Judas was not born, it meant that he would have preferred never to have met Judas. After the cross, Jesus was no longer going to interact with Judas.

			When you leave your God-given position, you lift up barriers between you and your spiritual father. This alters your relationship and cuts you off from the advice and inputs that you could have once received.

			By leaving, Judas wasted years of relationship and advice that he could have benefited from. Perhaps this is the greatest tragedy of all; to lose the great wisdom, great fellowship and great anointing that comes through a relationship.

			4.	JUDAS IS SOMEONE WHO WILL LOSE HIS FOUNDATION

			And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

			Revelation 21:14

			Judas lost his place in the foundation of the new Jerusalem. Judas did not have his name written in the twelve foundations in the wall of the city.

			There are many people who never receive a drop of spiritual inheritance because of the way they left home.

			When your father is writing his will, how will he know whether you are alive or not? Why should he include you when he has not seen you for so many years? Should he leave his property to a ghost? Certainly not!

			In the same way, a Judas will never receive the spiritual inheritance of the anointing.

			Have you noticed that pastors who leave their spiritual fathers in rebellion never carry a certain kind of anointing?





CHAPTER 7




Judas is after Money





But those who [are not financially ethical and] CRAVE TO GET RICH [WITH A COMPULSIVE, GREEDY LONGING FOR WEALTH] FALL INTO TEMPTATION AND A TRAP AND INTO MANY FOOLISH AND HARMFUL DESIRES THAT PLUNGE PEOPLE INTO RUIN AND DESTRUCTION [leading to personal misery]. For the love of money [that is, the greedy desire for it and the willingness to gain it unethically] is a root of all sorts of evil, and some by longing for it have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves [through and through] with many sorrows.



1 Timothy 6:9-10 AMP



		 			Judas is someone who is filled with a desire for more and more money. Such a person is never satisfied with what he has. What a shame that one of the disciples of Jesus Christ absolutely fulfilled the prophecies of destruction that are promised to those who love money!

			He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity.

			Ecclesiastes 5:10

			Judas was not content with the provision that he had through Jesus. This constant desire for more and more money led to the undoing of Judas.

			1.	Judas’ desire for money will cause him to be tempted with many temptations.

			BUT THEY THAT WILL BE RICH FALL INTO TEMPTATION and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition.

			1 Timothy 6:9

			A Judas will have many temptations, just as predicted. Your strong desire for money sets you up for temptations. Judas was tempted to betray Christ because of his desire for money. The other disciples did not have any such temptations. Many temptations are simply because of your love and desire for money.

			2.	Judas’ desire for money will cause him to be trapped.

			BUT THEY THAT WILL BE RICH fall into temptation and A SNARE, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition.

			1 Timothy 6:9

			Today, I know a number of Judas characters who have fallen into traps that they cannot come out of. I once saw a group of pastors trapped by a lawyer. They could not escape from this lawyer because they were trapped in a web of greed. I know pastors who are ensnared by legal advisers who promised them that they would have millions if they sued a church. These miserable Judases are now captives of wretched extortionists. Ministers who long to be rich are likely to fall into many traps and unexpected entanglements.

			3.	Judas is a person who is filled with foolish and unreasonable desires.

			But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many FOOLISH AND HURTFUL LUSTS, which drown men in destruction and perdition.

			1 Timothy 6:9

			A Judas will have many desires, just as predicted. Judas was tempted to betray Christ because of his desire for money. When people have a desire for money, they experience foolish lusts. For instance, they may desire to drink from diamond-studded golden cups. I know a pastor who was offered two and a half million dollars to disobey the word of God. His foolish desire for millions of dollars made him fall in to foolishness and hurt. There was nothing like two and a half million dollars! The foolish idea of two and a half million dollars was just dangled in front of this Judas’ beaming eyes. This Judas foolishly accepted the bait.

			4.	Judas is a person who will be drowned in destruction.

			BUT THEY THAT WILL BE RICH fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which DROWN MEN IN DESTRUCTION and perdition.

			1 Timothy 6:9

			All the Judas characters that I know have drowned in destruction. Their desire for money has been their undoing. Today, most of these people can only be described as destroyed ministers of the gospel. They are a pale shadow of what they used to be. Some are beggars! Some are stubbornly defiant but they are destroyed. They are drowned in destruction. Their ministries have been destroyed. Their lives have been destroyed. Their children and their future have been destroyed. Destruction awaits every single betrayer.

			5.	Judas is a person who will go into perdition.

			BUT THEY THAT WILL BE RICH fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and PERDITION.

			1 Timothy 6:9-10

			Because Judas desires money so badly, he ends up in perdition. A Judas must be careful because he can easily go to hell. Being strong willed and defiant will not protect you when you approach the gates of hell. It is widely believed that Judas is in hell. This is because Jesus said that he was the son of perdition, the son that perished, the son that went to hell.

			While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but the SON OF PERDITION; that the scripture might be fulfilled.

			John 17:12

			6.	Judas is a person who grasps at the root of all evil.

			BUT THEY THAT WILL BE RICH fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of MONEY IS THE ROOT OF ALL EVIL: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

			1 Timothy 6:9-10

			Because the love of money is the root of all evil, the root of betrayal is always money. The love of money is at the root of the behaviour of betrayers.

			One day, during a negotiation with some betrayers who had turned against me, a respected statesman asked these rebellious pastors what exactly they wanted from the church. (These Judas characters had set about suing the church). They answered simply, “We want money. Give us money. We want the church to pay us huge sums of money.”

			When I received this report, I felt so embarrassed that pastors whom I had trained, loved and raised for so many years would fall this low. These people were fulfilling all the traits of Judas Iscariot. For the love of money, they had turned against their own church and sued the church with outrageous claims, all in the quest to get money. The desire for money makes people to turn into Judas.

			7.	Judas is a person who is in error because of money.

			BUT THEY THAT WILL BE RICH fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have ERRED FROM THE FAITH, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

			1 Timothy 6:9-10

			Error in ministry is to seriously deviate from the true path. So many of us have deviated from the right pathway. Many Judas characters who were called to the ministry are today doing something else, living in error. The error of a Judas causes him to spew out nonsensical words, insults and abuse against authority. It is the love of money that makes people deviate into such error.

			8.	Judas is a person who is pierced through with sorrow.

			BUT THEY THAT WILL BE RICH fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, AND PIERCED THEMSELVES THROUGH WITH MANY SORROWS.

			1 Timothy 6:9-10

			Every Judas regrets what he has done. The sorrow of most Judas Iscariots is that they have betrayed innocent blood. They say to themselves in their private moments, “I have fought against someone who did me no harm. I have hated my father who loved me. I have done evil to a person who was good to me. I know in my heart that he only had good plans for me.”

			Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, Saying, I have sinned in that I HAVE BETRAYED THE INNOCENT BLOOD. And they said, What is that to us? see thou to that. And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and departed, and went and hanged himself.

			Matthew 27:3-5

			Judas Iscariot regretted what he had done so much that he killed himself. Judas committed suicide because he was pierced through with sorrows that he could not overcome. He had done something he could not undo.

			Many Judas Iscariots regret what they have done. It makes them sad privately, even though they may say something else publicly. Apostle Paul’s prediction for lovers of money came to pass in the life of Judas. He was pierced through and through with many sorrows. Such is the portion of betrayers of trust. I have watched as those who have betrayed me have been pierced through with many sorrows as they wished that they had never harmed the person who only loved them.





CHAPTER 8




Judas is Someone Who Pretends




And Satan entered into Judas who was called Iscariot, belonging to the number of the twelve. And he went away and discussed with the chief priests and officers how he might betray Him to them. They were glad and agreed to give him money. So he consented, and began seeking a good opportunity to betray Him to them apart from the crowd. When He rose from prayer, He came to the disciples and found them sleeping from sorrow, and said to them, “Why are you sleeping? Get up and pray that you may not enter into temptation.”While He was still speaking, behold, a crowd came, and the one called Judas, one of the twelve, was preceding them; and he approached Jesus to kiss Him. BUT JESUS SAID TO HIM, “JUDAS, ARE YOU BETRAYING THE SON OF MAN WITH A KISS?

Luke 22:3-6, 45-48; (NASB)



		 			Judas pretended to be a faithful disciple of Jesus Christ. In the end it was revealed that he was a traitor, deceiver and a murderer.

			1.	A Judas is a pretender!

			2.	A Judas is a disloyal person who pretends to be loyal.

			3.	A Judas is a false and fake personality who pretends to be something that he is not.

			4.	A Judas is a hypocrite who pretends to be a good person but is actually a bad person.

			5.	A Judas is a deceiver who intends to fool you.

			6.	A Judas is a liar who pretends that he is telling the truth.

			7.	A Judas is a destroyer who pretends that he is building something.

			8.	A Judas is a murderer who pretends to be a peacemaker.

			9.	A Judas is a covenant breaker who pretends that he respects agreements.

			10.	A Judas cannot be trusted but pretends to be the most trustworthy person around.

			How to Deal with the Threat of a Judas

			Every leader will face the threat of Judas Iscariot. Many people are not loyal but they pretend to be loyal; pretending to be loyal when they are actually your enemies. Do not be deceived by the meek-faced people with sheepish grins who appear to admire your every decision. Many of these people are pretending. You must go further and uncover the truth about everyone around you. Watch out for those who do not talk much. They are the ones who have much to hide.

			People who do not say anything when they are in your presence, but talk a lot when they are away from you, are good examples of pretenders. Why have one picture when you are near and another picture when you are far?

			Samson was in great danger when he relaxed in the presence of a pretending woman. So also, will you be in great danger when you relax in the presence of fake followers who do not really like you! Pretenders are very dangerous people and can lead to the worst kind of crisis in your ministry. Do not be trusting and accepting of quiet and unknown people. The Bible teaches us to prove all things and hold fast to that which is good. (1 Thessalonians 5:20)

			Watch out for the signs and symptoms of another Judas!

			How are you supposed to uncover and discover pretenders who do not speak their minds? The answer is simple - in the same way that doctors use symptoms to diagnose illnesses in your body!

			How do doctors find things out? By learning about symptoms and signs! Each symptom or sign in the body can lead to an important diagnosis. Similarly, each symptom you notice in a person can lead to the all-important diagnosis that you are dealing with Judas Iscariot.

			Watch out for the signs and symptoms of a pretender! Like a doctor, believe the signs and symptoms. Do not simply trust what you see. Jesus Christ did not judge with his eyes.

			And the spirit of the LORD shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the LORD; And shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the LORD: AND HE SHALL NOT JUDGE AFTER THE SIGHT OF HIS EYES, NEITHER REPROVE AFTER THE HEARING OF HIS EARS: But with righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the meek of the earth: and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.

			Isaiah 11:2-4

			Look beyond the perfect picture that is presented to you and see the real thing. You must judge by the actions and not by the outward presentation. If you allow a pretender to flourish in your midst, you are grooming a potential traitor and murderer. Let’s look at a few symptoms and signs that are important in picking up pretenders.

			How to Notice Pretenders

			1.	Watch out for someone with a quiet brooding personality.

			Notice people who are too quiet! They could be pretenders. Quiet people are dangerous. All their positive and negative thoughts are stored up within them. They stand still and watch quietly with a lean and hungry look in their eyes. You must develop a proper fear and respect for quiet people! Quiet withdrawn people remind us of schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a serious illness that affects the mind.

			2.	Watch people with dual personalities.

			When they are with others, they are sanguineous, jovial, chatty and friendly. When they are in your presence, they are quiet, serious, pensive and melancholy. Is it that such a person has two personalities? Or could it be that they pretend to be something else when they are in your presence?

			3.	Watch those who are too nice.

			Many pretenders present themselves publicly as perfect family men. Publicly, they will say, “In this family, we marry only once.” But in private, they have multiple partnerships without rules!

			A very nice personality indeed. Notice people who are too nice. How can it be that you are always smiling and grinning in every circumstance? Are you never sad? Are you never unhappy? Are you always elated and excited? That cannot be the case. Such people have a picture of goodness, righteousness, perfection, orderliness and holiness. Such people have a good picture of their marriage. Often, this is a façade for hidden things and dark secrets. A Judas is often too nice and too good!

			4.	Watch those who are non-committal.

			Notice people who do not say either good or bad. Notice people who never take a stance about anything. It cannot be that you never have anything good to say. And it cannot be that you never have anything bad to say. You must have something in your mind.

			Watch out for people who are non-committal. I have noticed that people who say ‘I don’t belong here or there’ actually belong somewhere.

			Absalom did not say enough. Absalom said neither good nor bad about his sister being raped. How could that be? Did he not even have a bad comment?

			5.	Watch unfaithful adulterers.

			A Judas is an unfaithful man. He is disloyal. Judas is wicked! Judas is two-faced! Judas is a dual character! Judas is somebody who does the unthinkable, the unspeakable and the unimaginable. You need all the characteristics of a Judas to have extramarital affairs. That is why most Judases have extramarital affairs. Having an extramarital affair is the easiest thing for a Judas to do.





CHAPTER 9




Judas is Someone Who Forgets





FOR GOD IS NOT UNRIGHTEOUS TO FORGET your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.



Hebrews 6:10



		 			1.	Judas was an unrighteous person because he forgot all that Jesus had done for him.

			Forgetting is unrighteousness! To forget, to fail to acknowledge and to fail to remember are sins before God.

			It is incomprehensible to think of some of the things a Judas forgets.

				A Judas forgets his covenant.

				A Judas forgets the promises he has made.

				A Judas forgets how he promised to be faithful.

				A Judas forgets how he was helped.

				A Judas forgets how he was chosen.

				A Judas forgets how he was worked on to become as nice as he is today.

				A Judas forgets the money that has been given to him in the past.

			A Judas forgets the appointment that he has received and the trust that has been placed in him as he wretchedly acts contrary to all the promises that he has made.

			One day, a brother described a treacherous sister saying, “She has broken every single promise she ever made.”

			People grow up and forget who cared for them, who nurtured them and who loved them. They forget those who brought them to Christ, those who raised them in the Lord and those who put them in the ministry. Is it possible that people can forget the people who helped them at the most important crossroads of their lives? Can they turn around and attack the very people who raised them up? The answer is “Yes”! It happens all the time.

			People forget God when they prosper. People become atheists after they become millionaires. Europe has forsaken God because they have become the richest continent. But it is God who gave them what they have.

			 What a pathetic sin it is to forget the one who gave you everything! Indeed, it is unrighteousness that is worthy of the most terrible punishment.

			2.	A Judas forgets and does not have the nature of God.

			FOR GOD IS NOT UNRIGHTEOUS TO FORGET your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.

			Hebrews 6:10

			Judas is an evil man! Judas forgot all that God had done for him. God does not forget! Man forgets but God does not forget! People who forget do not have the nature of God!

			It is the manifestation of the fallen nature of wicked and depraved man to forget things that must never be forgotten.

				A person who is controlled by the Word of God and the Spirit of God does not forget certain things.

				The natural man does not like to remember those who helped him.

				The natural unsaved man does not like to remember where he came from.

				The natural man does not want anyone to know how he came to be who he is.

				But that is not the nature of God. When Jesus walked the earth, He constantly told us where He came from. He said He could do nothing of Himself.

				He said He was only speaking the words that His Father gave Him.

				This is in sharp contrast to the proud Judas Iscariot. The proud and wicked man does not reveal his origins and beginnings. He believes he is self-made and thinks he came on the scene by his own power.

			3.	A Judas forgets and is therefore cursed to wither.

			Doth the papyrus shoot up without mire? Doth the reed-grass grow without water? Whilst it is yet in his greenness, and not cut down, it WITHERETH before any other herb. So are the paths of ALL THAT FORGET GOD…

			Job 8:11-13 (DBY)

			People who forget are cursed to wither. So serious is the sin of forgetting that curses are rained on the lives of forgetful people. You don’t need to hear a curse spoken against you because you forgot some important things. Those that forget God shall wither. Be careful that you remember all the ways the Lord has brought you and all the things He has done for you.

			4.	A Judas is in danger because he forgets.

			By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion.

			We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof.

			For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion.

			How shall we sing the LORD’S song in a strange land?

			IF I FORGET THEE, O JERUSALEM, LET MY RIGHT HAND FORGET HER CUNNING.

			IF I DO NOT REMEMBER THEE, LET MY TONGUE CLEAVE TO THE ROOF OF MY MOUTH; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.

			Psalm 137:1-6

			A Judas is in danger of destruction! The psalmist knew that it would be a tragedy to forget Jerusalem. He placed a curse on himself if he did not remember where he came from. This is how serious the issue of remembrance is. You might as well stop living if you do not remember certain things. Your tongue will cleave to the roof of your mouth if you cannot remember where God raised you from. Your right hand will be unable to write cheques when you forget what God has done for you. It is no wonder that Judas ended up the way he did!

			 5.	A Judas forgets God when he has everything he needs.

			LEST WHEN THOU HAST EATEN AND ART FULL, AND HAST BUILT GOODLY HOUSES, and dwelt therein; And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied; then thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage;

			Deuteronomy 8:12-14

			The unrighteousness of forgetting commonly affects people who are full! Judas was full! He had everything! He was one of the twelve apostles! He was saved! People who live in their own houses tend to forget God. Those who have multiplied all that they have also quickly forget God.

			You must become the type of person who is rich and prosperous and yet mindful of where you came from. It is a sad fact that many rich people talk a lot but give little. People speak about the blessings God has given them but they do not honour God for what He has done.

			6.	A Judas is a proud man who forgets how he became important.

			Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses, and dwelt therein; And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied; then THINE HEART BE LIFTED UP, and thou forget the Lord thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage;

			And thou say in thine heart, My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth.

			Deuteronomy 8:12-14, 17

			Every Judas I know is a wretchedly proud beast who has forgotten how he has been helped. Pride makes you forget and forgetting makes you into a Judas.

			People do not want to acknowledge that God helped them. They don’t want to acknowledge that any human being helped them. They actually think in their hearts that they are self-made and they want you to think the same. These people do not acknowledge God and their hearts are lifted up.

			People who do not pay tithes do not acknowledge God’s role in their prosperity. When people’s hearts are lifted up, they say, “I worked hard to get what I have.”

			A pastor was once asked, “Who is your spiritual father?” He looked bewildered wondering why he was being asked such a “stupid” question. “I have no other father apart from my biological father,” he answered.

			Such a person is willingly ignorant of all the help that has been given to him. This fellow had been trained, appointed, ordained and consecrated into the ministry by his spiritual father. Hands had been laid on him by his spiritual father. He had enjoyed employment and great provisions for many years. Yet, he was saying that he had no other father apart from his biological father. Wretched orangus have serious memory problems that turn them into ingrates.

			7.	A Judas will forget after a short while.

			Only take heed to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and LEST THEY DEPART FROM THY HEART ALL THE DAYS OF THY LIFE: but teach them thy sons, and thy sons’ sons;

			Deuteronomy 4:9

			Judas changed completely after three years. It took him only three years to develop into a full-blown devil. Being with Jesus did not impress him! Judas is somebody who will turn against you. Judas is somebody who will leave you after a while.

			It took Judas only three years to completely depart from Jesus Christ and chart his own course based on his financial dreams. Judas does not have a family spirit. You cannot expect him to blend into the family and stay with you forever.

			When the Lord has done great things for you, you are not expected to remember them for only five years. Many people do not realize that they are indebted to God forever. It is not about remembering for a number of years. It is about remembering for the rest of your life. People remember their salvation for a few years and “mature” to a place where they never talk about salvation. How sad that is!

			One day, I had a Bible student who stayed with us for over six years. When he went back to his home country, it took him just a few months to turn completely against the one who had nurtured him from the age of twelve. He fulfilled all the prophecies of Judas and became a full blown wretched and miserable wicked Absalom, attacking his own father.

				A young rebellious pastor once said about his spiritual father, “I don’t owe him anything. I’ve honoured him enough.”

				But he was making a mistake. He did owe him gratitude and honour for the rest of his life because what had been done for him had affected his whole life.

				Paul told Philemon, “You owe me your whole life.” (Philemon 1:19)

				Another puffed up pastor said to me, “I’ve served you for five years. I don’t owe you anything.”

				He asked, “Do you want me to be grateful forever?”

				The answer is, “Yes, you must be grateful forever!”

			8.	Judas forgot his covenant with Jesus.

			Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves: ...

			Without understanding, COVENANTBREAKERS, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful:

			Romans 1:24, 31

			Judas is a covenant breaker. Judas broke the “forever covenant”. Judas could not stay faithful for more than three years! When Jesus called His disciples, He made a “forever covenant” with them when He said, “I will be with you forever.

			Jesus promised to love His disciples forever and of course He was expecting love from His disciples forever. Within three years one of His disciples proved to be a classic covenant breaker. Judas is a covenant breaker! Judas will turn against you! Judas will fight you! Judas will hate you without a cause. Judas will forget everything he learnt within three years.

			Everyone will make a number of covenants in his lifetime. For example, you may make a covenant to follow Christ. You may also make a covenant of obedience or a covenant of marriage.

			As sin has increased in the world the ability to remember the covenants one has made has also decreased. As time has gone by, a man’s word has virtually lost its value and come to be replaced by written documents. Sinful man has become a covenant breaker (Romans 1:31).

			Take heed unto yourselves, LEST YE FORGET THE COVENANT OF THE LORD your God, which he made with you, and make you a graven image, or the likeness of any thing, which the LORD thy God hath forbidden thee.

			Deuteronomy 4:23

			*“Orangu” is a coined term to describe rebellious persons





CHAPTER 10




Judas is Against the Honour




Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment. THEN SAITH ONE OF HIS DISCIPLES, JUDAS ISCARIOT, SIMON’S SON, WHICH SHOULD BETRAY HIM, WHY WAS NOT THIS OINTMENT SOLD FOR THREE HUNDRED PENCE, AND GIVEN TO THE POOR? This he said, not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put therein. Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying hath she kept this. For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always.

John 12:3-8



		 			Judas is against the honour of God’s servant.

			Judas is against the prosperity of God’s servant.

			Judas is someone who is against the honour and the prosperity of God’s servant. On that fateful day, Mary honoured Jesus Christ with a lovely alabaster box of perfume. The whole house was filled with the smell of this perfume. No one could control the lady as she poured out her expensive honour on Jesus. Everyone stood back in amazement! They were taken by surprise by this move of Mary. She had honoured Jesus because of a personal conviction that she had. Her honour was not as a result of a committee meeting.

			All the disciples stood by in amazement as this lady unilaterally honoured Jesus Christ. However, Judas did not approve of this expense.

			Judas murmured against the woman’s act of honour. People who are against the bestowal of gifts and good things on God’s servants must be noted.

			They are often Judases in the making!

			The Concerned Judas

			Some years ago, I received a message from a brother who claimed to be a concerned Christian. His concern was that people were gathering gifts to bestow upon me on a particular occasion.

			Once and again, he sent messages to me that he did not think it was appropriate for people to gather such gifts for me. He claimed that he was concerned for my reputation.

			However, I sensed the spirit of Judas in the realm of the spirit.

			A few months later, I found out that he was interacting deeply with some of the people who hated me the most. I found out that he was in cahoots with wretched orangus who were slandering me and the church constantly. I realised that I had not been wrong in thinking that this person who was concerned about gifts being given to me was actually a Judas.

			Judas Iscariot will always be remembered for being against the honour that was bestowed on Jesus Christ by Mary. I will advise you to watch everyone’s reaction when God’s servant is being honoured.

			Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things.

			Galatians 6:6





CHAPTER 11




Judas is Someone Who is Ignorant




And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven: And he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: IT IS HARD FOR THEE TO KICK AGAINST THE PRICKS. And he TREMBLING AND ASTONISHED said, Lord, what will thou have me to do…

Acts 9:3-6



		 			O how ignorant is Judas! He thinks he can destroy God’s servant. Judas can never destroy what God is doing. No one can destroy the purpose of God. Read this scripture for yourself. Can you turn back the hand of God?

			This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations. For THE LORD OF HOSTS HATH PURPOSED, AND WHO SHALL DISANNUL IT? AND HIS HAND IS STRETCHED OUT, AND WHO SHALL TURN IT BACK?

			Isaiah 14:26-27

			A Judas is someone who thinks he can destroy you. O, how ignorant he is! I have experienced many people who hated me so much they wanted to destroy me and the church I founded.

			I have had people who felt that they would spread so much slime and slander against me that it would destroy me and make it impossible for me to continue in the ministry.

			I have had people threaten to drive me out of the country. I have heard people cursing me from the bottom of their hearts.

			I have heard of people having meetings and planning how to destroy me and the ministry.

			Saul (who later became Paul) was ignorant when he fought against the church. He did not know that fighting the church is like kicking against nails with all your strength.

			This is what Saul discovered when he had fought against the church and supervised the elimination of one of its leaders, Stephen. Saul was a man with a good conscience. He earnestly thought that he was eliminating troublemakers from the peaceful city of Jerusalem. In his fight for righteousness, he sought to wipe out elements that he thought were harmful to society.

			There are Judas Iscariots who declare that they are on a holy war to expose false preachers and ministries. Like Saul, they think they have a divine mandate to let everyone know the truth about the hypocrites in the pulpits. The Apostle Paul was so surprised to find out that he was actually fighting against Christ.

			Paul was astonished when he discovered what he was really doing! When people do not know what they are doing, they often do the wrong thing. Paul the wretched sinner and blasphemer could not destroy Jesus Christ and the church. He claimed later on that he had received mercy from God because he had attacked God’s church in his ignorance.

			Who was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious: but I obtained mercy, because I DID IT IGNORANTLY IN UNBELIEF.

			1 Timothy 1:13

			Judas Iscariot was a fool to think that he could destroy Jesus Christ. In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God and the Word was God (John 1:1). Everything in the universe was created by Jesus Christ.

			One day, a pastor who had worked with me in the past, went on a quest to destroy me. He met someone who told him, “You lack biblical intelligence to attack God’s servant the way you are doing.” Unfortunately, he did not heed the advice he was given. As a result of his futile quest, the sword of the Lord entered his dwelling place and scattered everything!

			I have watched as people wither as they try to destroy God’s church.

			It is sad that Christians can be tricked into following rebels and modern-day Judases. Today, there are many ignorant people who are following empty-headed rebels. No one can destroy God’s servant, no matter who you are.

			I remember a man of God who thought he could destroy Reinhard Bonnke. His name was Richard Ngidi. Richard Ngidi was gifted in miracles, signs and wonders. During those days, Bonnke would preach first and step down from the platform for Ngidi to do the miracles, signs and wonders part of the ministry. Richard Ngidi was a solid part of the team and he gave great support to Reinhard Bonnke, causing the ministry to grow rapidly.

			Perhaps Richard Ngidi began to think that he was the one who made Reinhard Bonnke great. After all, he was the man doing the miracles and yet Reinhard Bonnke was taking the credit for the great ministry that bore Reinhard Bonnke’s name.

			One day, Richard Ngidi said to Reinhard Bonnke’s assistant, “The day I leave Bonnke, he is finished! The day I leave will mark the end of Bonnke and his ministry.”

			One day, Richard Ngidi didn’t show up at a crusade. Bonnke waited and waited for Richard but he did not show up. Frustrated and disappointed, Reinhard mounted the platform, fully depending on the Holy Spirit this time. And guess what? God used Bonnke mightily in miracles, signs and wonders. This was the beginning of Bonnke’s ministry of miracles, signs and wonders.

			Instead of that day being the end of Bonnke, it marked a new beginning for him and unfortunately heralded the end of Richard Ngidi.

			Time passed, and one day Richard Ngidi came to attend one of Reinhard Bonnke’s crusades. He saw multitudes and multitudes gathered there. It seems Richard Ngidi had a chance to meet Bonnke.

			All that Ngidi could say that day was “I missed it, I missed it”

			That was the last time Richard Ngidi met Bonnke.

			Richard Ngidi died soon after that encounter.

			This is a lesson to all of us. Do not think you can destroy God’s servant! Judas thought he would finish the ministry of Jesus.

			Jesus was just getting started in His ministry to the whole wide world. The cross was the beginning of the ministry of Jesus Christ. Today, the name of Jesus is mentioned in the whole wide world and the name Judas invokes a heartfelt horror.





CHAPTER 12




Judas is a Betrayer




Have we not all one father? hath not one God created us? why do WE DEAL TREACHEROUSLY every man against his brother, by profaning the covenant of our fathers? JUDAH HATH DEALT TREACHEROUSLY, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah hath profaned the holiness of the Lord which he loved, and hath married the daughter of a strange god. The Lord will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and the scholar, out of the tabernacles of Jacob, and him that offereth an offering unto the Lord of hosts. And this have ye done again, covering the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping, and with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, or receiveth it with good will at your hand. Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because the LORD hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom THOU HAST DEALT TREACHEROUSLY: yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant. And did not he make one? Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and LET NONE DEAL TREACHEROUSLY against the wife of his youth. For the LORD, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away: for one covereth violence with his garment, saith the LORD of hosts: therefore take heed to your spirit, that ye DEAL NOT TREACHEROUSLY.

Malachi 2:10-16 KJV



		 			Treachery is the general term for betraying one’s country, other people, one’s family or one’s friends.

			The words “treachery” and “betrayal” are often interchangeable.

			Treachery and betrayal are general terms for deceiving other people and turning against people who trust you.

			Treachery is to give away people’s secrets.

			Betrayal is to give away people’s secrets.

			Treachery is losing sight of one’s principles or beliefs.

			Treachery is an unforgettable experience. Anyone who has been betrayed or experienced betrayal is changed forever.

			Characteristics of a Treacherous Person

			1.	Judas, a treacherous person, is ready, likely and willing to betray you.

			2.	Judas, a treacherous person, is deceptive.

			3.	Judas, a treacherous person, is unstable.

			4.	Judas, a treacherous person, is dangerous.

			5.	Judas, a treacherous person, is hazardous and harmful.

			6.	Judas, a treacherous person, is unreliable and untrustworthy.

			7.	Judas, a treacherous person, is not who you think he is.

			8.	Judas, a treacherous person, has a life of secrets and mysteries.

			9.	Judas, a treacherous person, is a wicked man.

			10.	Judas, a treacherous person, is a bad man acting as a good man.

			11.	Judas, a treacherous person, is an impostor.

			12.	Judas, a treacherous person, is an evil member of your team.

			Judas is a false brother. Judas is a bad man who is acting as a good man. Judas is an impostor. An impostor is a fake person. An impostor is someone who acts as a pastor but is actually something else. An impostor is someone who practices deception and makes everyone believe that he is something that he is not.

			An impostor is an actor. Everything about him is not real. Many actors are not strong but they act as invincible supermen.

			But evil men and IMPOSTORS will proceed from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived.

			2 Timothy 3:13 (NASB95)

			You Will Remember Judas

			Someone who betrays your trust is not easily forgotten. A Judas is someone whose treachery and betrayals will always be remembered by those he betrayed. You can see from the verses below that Judas was always described as a betrayer.

			 From the appointment of the disciples to the last Supper, from Gethsemane, to the handing over of Jesus to the Pharisees, Judas’ presence as the betrayer was always noted. A betrayer is an unforgettable person.

			The wounds of a betrayer are very deep and many never overcome the effects of a betrayer till they die.

			Some people even die because of the effects of a betrayer on their lives.

			Judas deeply impacted both Jesus and the other disciples by his actions. It has been over two thousand years since Jesus was betrayed. What has happened has happened but it keeps coming up because betrayal is never forgotten.

			The behaviour of a betrayer touches people in a strange way.

			This is because the betrayer does the unthinkable, the unspeakable and the unimaginable. The surprise alone can kill you!

			This is why when bad news is being given to people, they ask them to sit down first.

			The shock of the unimaginable, the unthinkable and the unspeakable is difficult to forget.

			Notice how Judas is consistently mentioned in the scriptures as a betrayer. No one forgets betrayal! Do not be surprised if experiences of betrayal keep coming up in discussions years after it has happened,

			AND HE ORDAINED TWELVE, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach, And to have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out devils: And Simon he surnamed Peter; And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and he surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder: And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite, And JUDAS ISCARIOT, WHICH ALSO BETRAYED him: and they went into an house.

			Mark 3:14-19

			Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve. And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me. And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I? And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me. The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: BUT WOE UNTO THAT MAN BY WHOM THE SON OF MAN IS BETRAYED! It had been good for that man if he had not been born. Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said.

			Matthew 26:20-25

			When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entered, and his disciples. And JUDAS ALSO, WHICH BETRAYED HIM, KNEW THE PLACE: for Jesus ofttimes resorted thither with his disciples.

			John 18:1-2

			Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons. Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he. AND JUDAS ALSO, WHICH BETRAYED HIM, STOOD WITH THEM.

			John 18:3-5





CHAPTER 13




Judas Will be Replaced





FOR IT IS WRITTEN IN THE BOOK OF PSALMS, LET HIS HABITATION BE DESOLATE, AND LET NO MAN DWELL THEREIN: AND HIS BISHOPRICK LET ANOTHER TAKE. Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, ….And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen, …And they gave forth their lots; and the lot fell upon Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.

Acts 1:20-21, 24, 26



		 			God will send a replacement for every rebellious person who chooses the way of Judas.

			God is ahead of Judas! Jesus knew who was going to betray Him long before it happened.

			Jesus knew who was going to betray Him in chapter 6 of the book of John. In other words, Jesus knew long before Judas manifested, that He was going to need a replacement for Judas. Jesus knew that he was a thief and a wicked person. But there is always a use for a thief and a wicked person, if you know how to handle them.

			Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil? He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve.

			John 6:70-71

			Jesus was preparing to replace Judas long before he manifested his wickedness.

			God has a replacement for Judas! A replacement so perfect that it will surprise you!

			The first replacement of Judas was Matthias. Matthias was chosen by the twelve disciples. Even though Mathias was chosen, Joseph Barsabbas Justus was standing by in the wings, hoping for an opportunity to take the position. All Judases must be aware that there is a string of replacements who will do even better than they did.

			Right on the other hand, there seems to have been another replacement chosen by God and not chosen by casting lots. This other replacement was Apostle Paul. Apostle Paul saw himself as one of the apostles. Paul described himself as a replacement, who had come in late. Indeed, Apostle Paul was seen as a replacement for the missing Judas Iscariot.

			And last of all he was seen of me also, AS OF ONE BORN OUT OF DUE TIME. For I AM THE LEAST OF THE APOSTLES, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.

			1 Corinthians 15:8-9

			Paul saw himself as part of the family of apostles. Paul saw himself as someone who was a significant member of the apostolic family. Apostle Paul compared himself with none other than Apostle Peter.

			For I suppose I was not a whit behind the very chiefest apostles.

			2 Corinthians 11:5

			Perhaps, it was the prayers of Stephen asking for forgiveness for Saul that allowed Paul to be saved.

			And cast him out of the city, and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man’s feet, whose name was Saul. And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, LORD, LAY NOT THIS SIN TO THEIR CHARGE. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.

			Acts 7:58-60





CHAPTER 14




Judas Will Die the Death of the Wicked




Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number of the fourth part of Israel? LET ME DIE THE DEATH OF THE RIGHTEOUS, AND LET MY LAST END BE LIKE HIS!

Numbers 23:10



		 			What is the death of the wicked? The death of the wicked is to die and be turned into hell. The wicked shall be turned into hell! The wicked shall be turned into hell!

			THE WICKED SHALL BE TURNED INTO HELL, and all the nations that forget God.

			Psalm 9:17

			The Scriptures are clear. God will throw out the people who have forgotten God. You do not want to go to Hell. Hell is reserved for those who forget God. Forgetting God is the ultimate unrighteousness of man. Judas forgot whom Jesus Christ was, as he sold Him for thirty pieces of silver. How can you sell God for thirty pieces of silver?

			Judas was turned into hell. Judas Iscariot was destined for hell. Judas is called the son of perdition. The son who perishes! The son who goes to hell!

			While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but THE SON OF PERDITION; that the scripture might be fulfilled.

			John 17:12

			All modern day Judases should watch out! A Judas may actually end up in hell, instead of going to heaven. People who forget all the scriptures they have ever known and disobey them may be turned into hell. It is possible that pastors who have walked in total rebellion and wickedness may end up in hell instead of heaven. It remains to be seen what will be the eternal judgment of wretched betrayers.

			Absalom had the spirit of Judas. Absalom died the death of the wicked.

			Absalom had the spirit of Judas. Absalom was hanged on a tree and struck in his heart. Absalom died the death of the wicked.

			Absalom was chased like a thief, killed by loyal troops and buried under a heap of stones.

			Joab said, “I’m not going to waste any more time on you.” SO HE GOT THREE JAVELINS. THEN HE WENT OVER AND PLUNGED THEM INTO ABSALOM’S HEART. HE DID IT WHILE ABSALOM WAS STILL HANGING THERE ALIVE IN THE OAK TREE. TEN OF THE MEN CARRYING JOAB’S ARMOR SURROUNDED ABSALOM. THEY STRUCK HIM AND KILLED HIM. Then Joab blew his trumpet. He ordered his troops to stop chasing Israel’s army. Joab’s men threw Absalom into a big pit in the forest. They covered him with a large pile of rocks. While all of that was going on, all the Israelites ran back to their homes.

			2 Samuel 18:14-17 NIRV

			There is something called “The death of the wicked” and “the death of the righteous”. Judas did not die the death of the righteous because he was a wicked betrayer.

			Judas died prematurely. Judas died before the person he betrayed. Judas did not live long enough to enjoy the thirty pieces of silver.

			All Judas-like people will also die the death of the wicked. Expect to die the death of a wicked man if you are a Judas.

			Say unto them, As I live, saith the Lord GOD, I HAVE NO PLEASURE IN THE DEATH OF THE WICKED; but that the wicked turn from his way and live: turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways; for why will ye die, O house of Israel?’

			Ezekiel 33:11

			Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders, Saying, I have sinned in that I have betrayed the innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? See thou to that. And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and departed, AND WENT AND HANGED HIMSELF.

			Matthew 27:3-5





